 
 
REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION  
TO COMPEL I.C.R. 16(b)(7) MATERIAL AND FOR SANCTIONS     Page 1 
 Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com   
 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender 
Idaho State Public Defender  
1450 Northwest Blvd. 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83814 
Phone: (208) 605-4575 
 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
 
Assigned Attorney: 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01-24-31665 
 
 
REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION  TO COMPEL  
I.C.R. 16(b)(7) MATERIAL  AND FOR 
SANCTIONS  
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorney s of record , and hereby 
replies to the State’s Objection to Defendant’s Motion to Compel I.C.R. 16(b)(7) Material and 
Sanctions.  
Mr. Kohberger is protected under the Constitutions of the United States and the State of 
Idaho to a right to a fair trial, to confront his accusers , the presumption of innocence and effective STATE OF IDAHO , 
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
1/7/2025 5:52 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy Clerk 
 
REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION  
TO COMPEL I.C.R. 16(b)(7) MATERIAL AND FOR SANCTIONS     Page  2 
 assistance of counsel.  In effort to protect his rights, the Idaho Supreme Court has pronounced 
rules governing criminal discovery through Idaho Criminal Rules.  Mr. Kohberger asserts the 
State’s failure to disclose expert opinions and supporting data  violates his rights under both 
Constitutions.  Mr. Kohberger cannot fairly confront the evidence the State intends to bring against 
him when he does not know what it is.  His counsel cannot be adequately prepared to represent him at trial given the State’s lack of adequate expert disclosure s. Failure to properly disclose expert 
opinions  by merely disclosing a list or topics an expert may testify about or leaving open ended 
opinions in essence shifts  the burden to Mr. Kohberger .  He is forced to respond to unknown expert 
opinions , with unspecified scientific, technical or specialized knowledge  while giving the State the 
ability to disclose its further or actual expert opinions in rebuttal  filing on February 13, 2025. This 
failure to disclose expert opinions  not only prevents Mr. Kohberger from confronting evidence 
against him, but  also prevents him  from assessing his need to file motions in limine and motions 
to exclude expert witness who do not meet Idaho’s evidentiary standard  (Idaho Rules of Evidence 
702, 703, 704 and 705 ), otherwise known as a “Daubert/Frye” hearing. Deadlines are looming. 
This motion cannot be heard until January 23, 2025, the actual defense deadline.  Motions in limine are due February 10, 2025.  A motion to extend time  to file some  is filed simultaneously.  
ARGUMENT  
 The Court has the State’s sealed exhibits S1 -S25.  The State’s filing consists of over 400 
pages, mostly curriculum vitae  of the named witnesses, and very few details of expert opinions 
with a few exceptions.  Approximately two thousand pages of discovery are referenced in the DNA 
disclosures. The Court does not have the discovery pages in the expert disclosures  but for one 
example attached to the State’s Objection as S -1. Most of the disclosures have catch all phrases  
that the expert will rely on the work  of unnamed others, that the disclosure is meant to be an aid, 
but “does not encompass all finding, impression, conclusions, or materials related to this expert’s involvement in this case” or that the disclosure “does not in any [] limit the scope of the expert’s  
 
REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION  
TO COMPEL I.C.R. 16(b)(7) MATERIAL AND FOR SANCTIONS     Page  3 
 testimony.”   This language essentially places no limits on the testimony of the expert and places 
Mr. Kohberger at a disadvantage because he cannot prepare for the unknown opinion of an expert 
that would be proffered for the first time on the witness stand in front of a jury.  The State disclosures violate his constitutional right s under the Sixth Amendment  and Fourteenth 
Amendments  to confront and cross -examine the witnesses , confront the  evidence that the State 
intends to present, and his counsel’s abilit y to effectively prepare.  Some of the expert disclosures 
are extremely broad and encompass topics that are not touched upon in any reports or discovery provided. These disclosures do not allow Mr. Kohberger  to evaluate the scope of the opinion, 
assess how his own expert witness will need to respond with countering opinions, prepare to  
confront the evidence the State intends to elicit, allow counsel to competently prepare for trial  and 
determine if a motion in limine or motion to exclude  will be needed.  Other disclosures contain 
lists of areas of testimony without more.  Mr. Kohberger is provided no clues about the expert opinions on discovery disclosures that are vast – hundreds of thousands of pages.  Attached as 
exhibit B, under seal, is a more detailed argument related to  the lack of disclosure for  specific 
experts.  
The State’s “Objection To Defendant’s  Motion to Compel I.CR. 16(b) (7)” acknowledges 
its duty under the rules, the quantity of 68 terabytes
1 of discovery, and the disarray to which the 
State has both received and produced the discovery.  The State interprets the motion to compel as one of “complaint” that “adequate” information has not been provided. See Foot Note 1 page 2.   
Mr. Kohberger ’s argument  is that, given the overwhelming amount of discovery in this capital 
murder case, compliance with discovery rules related to expert opinions is vital to  be informed of 
expert opinions being offered against him.   Mr. Kohberger’s experts need to know exactly what 
opinions and supporting materials  each of them is confronting in this case  as well as allowing 
 
1 As a point of reference, a single terabyte is the equivalent of 75 million pages of text.  See: 
https://cloudnine.com/ediscoverydaily/electronic-discovery/ediscovery-best -practices -perspective-on-the -amount -of-
data-contained -in-1-gigabyte/   
 
REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION  
TO COMPEL I.C.R. 16(b)(7) MATERIAL AND FOR SANCTIONS     Page 4 
 competent representation by counsel. He needs to know what scientific, technical, or specialized 
knowledge the witness holds to qualify him or her as an expert.   “The discovery rules are designed 
to safeguard the truth- seeking functions of trials, promote fairness and/or, to facilitate fair and 
expedited pretrial fact gathering and to prevent surprise at trial.” State v. Morin, 158, Idaho 622,626 
(Ct. App. 2015).  The expert witnesses the State discloses are all relying on underlying data and technical or specialized knowledge, but what they intend to testify about using such knowledge is unknown.
2 
CONCLUSION 
Mr. Kohberger must be able to confront the evidence against him and to do that, it must be 
disclosed in accordance with Idaho Rule 16 and this Court’s trial setting order. The expert evidence disclosed by the State is  inadequate . This is a capital murder case and compliance with the rules 
of discovery are not optional. Mr. Kohberger is prejudiced by the State’s failure. It is impossible for him to confront unknown expert opinions, with his own expert disclosures by January 23, 2025.   
 
DATED this ___ 7____ da
 y of January, 2025. 
 
      BY:   
  
_________ 
       ELISA G. MASSOTH, ATTORNEY  
 
 
2 The State submitted exhibit S -1 to its objection as an example of discover y that qualifies as an expert report.  This exhibit 
is a list of items collected. If the witness associated with this list is simply a chain of custody witness, an opinion is no t 
necessary. If the witness will testify that evidence was collected in accordan ce with her training, proper procedure, and lab 
protocols, that calls for  and qualifies as  her opinion. If this witness testifies that others gathered evidence in accordance 
with proper procedure and protocols, that also qualifies as an opinion.  The lab protocols and evidence collection 
procedures have not been disclosed. If the State wishes to elicit her opinion regarding whether or not evidence was 
collected in accordance with her training and lab protocols, that is an opinion.  If the State wi shes to elicit any results of 
the tests  and what they mean, that is an opinion. This is a good example of how the State’s disclosures related to DNA are 
lacking in this case.   
 
 
REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION  
TO COMPEL I.C.R. 16(b)(7) MATERIAL AND FOR SANCTIONS     Page 5 
     
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___7____ day of January, 2025, addressed to: 
  Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov
  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: emassotht@kmrs.net   
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov   
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov   
        
       
