DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY   Page - 1  
Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender Kootenai County Public Defender PO Box 9000 Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 Phone: (208) 446-1700; Fax: (208) 446-1701 Bar Number: 5836 iCourt Email: pdfax@kcgov.us  Assigned Attorney: Anne Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 
 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
 
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR29 -22-0002805 
  DEFENDANT’S  REQUEST  
FOR DISCOVERY PURSUANT              
TO IC.R. 16  
 
 
 
TO: THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY  
 COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through their attorney of record, Anne 
Taylor Public Defender , and pursuant to Rule 16 of the Idaho Rules of Criminal Procedure, the 
Idaho Rules of Evidence, the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the 
Constitution of the United States, and Article I, § 1, 2, 13 and 17 of the Constitution of the State 
of Idaho, hereby requests disclosure of information, evidence and materials  pursuant to I.C.R. 
16b(1 – 9) and the aforementioned constitutional provisions, including but not limited to the 
following information, evidence and materials : 
1. Statements of the defendant.  Permit the defendant to inspect and copy or 
photograph:  any relevant written or recorded stat ements made by the defendant, or STATE OF IDAHO  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 V. 
 BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
                                    Defendant.  Electronically Filed
1/10/2023 8:06 AM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tonya Dodge, Deputy ClerkDEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY   Page - 2 copies thereof, within the possession, custody, or control of the State, the existence of 
which is known or is available to the prosecuting attorney by the exercise of due 
diligence; and also the substance of any relevant oral statement made by the defendant 
whether before or after arrest to a peace officer, prosecuting attorney or his agent, and the 
recorded testimony of the defendant before a grand jury which relates to the offense 
charged.   
2. Statements of co -defendant. Any written or recorded statements by a co -
defendant, and the substance of any relevant oral statement made by a co -defendant 
whether before or after arrest in response to interrogation by any person known by the co-defendant to be a peace officer or agent  of the prosecuting attorney, or which are 
otherwise relevant to the offense charged.  
3. Defendant’s prior record.  A copy of the defendant's prior record, if any, as is 
then or may become available to the prosecuting attorney. 4. Documents and tangible obj ects.  Permit the defendant to inspect and copy all 
books, papers, documents, photographs, tangible objects, and copies and portions thereof, which are in the possession or control of the prosecuting attorney and which are material 
to the preparation of the defense, or intended for use by the prosecutor as evidence at 
trial, or obtained from or belonging to the defendant. 
5. Reports of Examinations and Tests. Permit the defendant to inspect and copy any 
results or reports of physical or mental examinations,  and of scientific tests or 
experiments, made in connection with the particular case, that are in the possession, 
custody or control of the prosecuting attorney or the existence of which is known or is 
available to the prosecuting attorney by the exercise of due diligence.  
6. State witnesses. Provide a written list of the names, addresses, phone numbers 
and/or other reasonable means of contact for all persons having knowledge of relevant facts who may be called by the prosecuting attorney as witnesses at trial, together with a 
NCIC report and a Spillman report of any such persons.  
A. Provide the statements made by the prosecution witnesses, or prospective 
witnesses, made to the prosecuting attorney or their agents, or to any official involved 
in the investigatory process of the case.  This incl udes statements to employees of the DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY   Page - 3 prosecutor’s office such as witness coordinators and all members of any law 
enforcement agency that has had any involvement in the matter. 
7. Expert witnesses. Provide a written summary or report of any testimony that th e 
state intends to introduce pursuant to Rules 702, 703 or 705 of the Idaho Rules of 
Evidence at trial or hearing.  The summary provided must describe the witness’s 
opinions, the facts and data for those opinions, and the witness’s qualifications.  The 
underlying facts or data that form the basis of any expert testimony pursuant to Idaho 
Rule of Evidence 705. Disclosure of expert opinions regarding mental health shall also 
comply with the requirements of I.C. § 18-207.  8. Police Reports.   Provide to the de fendant all reports , all memoranda and all rough 
notes or field notes of any agents, officers and investigators involved in the investigation 
or prosecution of the defendant in connection with the above- entitled case.  
9. Digital Media Rec ordings (audio and video f iles).  Release to defendant digital 
media that may or may not contain protected information as defined by I.C.R. 16. The 
prosecuting attorney must state whether the disclosure contains protected information. 
A.  Unredacted Digital Media. Release unredacted digital media to defense counsel for the purpose of expediting a resolution in a case prior to trial or hearing.  
B. Redacted Digital Media. Provide redacted version(s) of digital media, along with a written explanation of the information that was  redacted, if the prosecuting 
attorney determines the digital media contains protected information requiring redaction prior to disclosure.  
10. Search Warrants. Provide all documentation in support of any search warrant 
issued in connection with this case, applications for search warrants (whether granted or 
denied), all affidavits, declarations and materials in support of such search warrants, all 
search warrants and all search warrant returns and inventories.  
11. Exculpa tory evidence. Provide to the defendant all material evidence within the 
scope of Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963), United States v. Agurs, 427 U.S. 97 
(1976), Kyles v. Whitley, 514 U.S. 419, 115 S.Ct. 1555 (1995) and their progeny. 
Specifically, any and all favorab le or exculpatory evidence, information, and documents 
in possession of the prosecuting attorney’s office or other agency or person available to 
the prosecution through due diligence.  DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY   Page - 4 A. See also , Idaho Rules of Professional Conduct 3.8 (d) and (g).   
12. Inducement.  Provide to the defendant all documents pertaining to the existence 
and substance of any payments, promises of leniency, preferential treatment or other 
inducements or threats made to prospective witnesses, within the scope of United  States 
v. Giglio,  405 U.S. 150 (1972) and Napue v. Illinois, 360 U.S. 264 (1959) and their 
progeny. 
13. Identification.  Disclosure of whether a defendant, or any other person, was 
identified by lineup, show up, photo spread or similar identification proceeding rela ting 
to the offense charged, and production of any pictures utilized or resulting therefrom and 
the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all identifying witnesses. 
14. Evidence pursuant to I.R.E. 404(b). Pursuant to the I.C.R. 16(a) requirement of 
mandatory disclosure, the Prosecution must disclose the general nature of evidence of 
other crimes, wrongs, or acts, it intends to introduce at trial as required by I.R.E. 404(b), 
see, e.g ., State v. Grist , 147 Idaho, 205 P.3d.1185 (2009  
15. Electronic surve illance. Disclosure of the defendant ’s status as an aggrieved 
person as defined by 18 U.S.C. § 2510(11), if applicable, and copies of all records and 
recordings related to all electronic surveillance, and set forth in writing the circumstances 
thereof.  
16. Drug tests.   Provide a copy of all documentation generated as a result of 
performed drug tests by the S tate’s agent for drug identification purposes, including types 
of testing performed in this case, testing procedures, reagents and/or solvents used in testing, comparative analyses performed, and number of experiments performed in each 
test. 
17. Subpoenas. Provide copies of each and every subpoena issued by the S tate to 
any person or entity, regardless of whether served or not, in connection with this cas e. 
18. Certifications. Provide verification of the hire date of all law enforcement officers 
that may be called as a witness in this matter, or who were involved in the investigation and/or arrest(s) in this case.  Provide a copy of the POST certification for all law 
enforcement officers identified above. 
 DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY   Page - 5 Pursuant to I.C.R. 16(f), the defendant demands compliance  from the State within 
fourteen (14) days of service of these requests.   
DATED this ___ 10____ day of January, 2023. 
 
ANNE C. TAYLOR, PUBLIC DEFENDER  
KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER   
 
 
      BY:  _________________________________ 
       ANNE C. TAYLOR  
       PUBLIC DEFENDER  
       ASSIGNED ATTORNEY 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___10____ day of January, 2023 addressed to: 
 Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via iCourt:  paservice@latahcountyid.gov
   
    
 
       
 
