LATAH COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE 
WILLIAM W. THOMPSON, JR. 
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY 
Latah County Courthouse 
P .0. Box 8068 
Moscow, ID 83843 
Phone: (208) 883-2246 
ISB No. 2613 
paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH 
STATE OF IDAHO, 
Plaintiff, 
BRYAN CHRISTOPHER KOHBERGER, 
Defendant. Case No. CR29-22-2805 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY 
TO: THE DEFENDANT, BRYAN CHRISTOPHER KOHBERGER AND COUNSEL, ANNE 
TAYLOR; 
COMES NOW, the State in the above-titled matter, and submits the following Response 
to Request for Discovery. 
The State has complied and will continue to comply with such request by providing the 
following: 
1. Any relevant written or recorded statements made by the defendant, or copies 
thereof, within the possession, custody or control of the state, the existence of which is known or 
· is available to the prosecuting attorney by the exercise of due diligence; and also the substance of 
any relevant, oral statement made by the defendant whether before or after arrest to a peace officer, 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY Electronically Filed
1/23/2023 3:08 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy Clerkprosecuting attorney, or the prosecuting attorney's agent have been or will be disclosed or 
otherwise made available. See Exhibit 11A." 
2. Any written or recorded statements of a co-defendant; and the substance of any 
relevant oral statement made by a co-defendant whether before or after arrest in response to 
interrogation by any person known by the co-defendant to be a peace officer or agent of the 
prosecuting attorney, have been or will be disclosed or otherwise made available. See Exhibit II A. 11 
3. Defendant's prior criminal record, if any, has been or will be disclosed or otherwise 
made available. See Exhibit 11A.11 
4. Any books, papers, documents, photographs, tangible objects, buildings, or places, 
or copies or portions thereof, which are in the possession, custody, or control of the prosecuting 
attorney and which are material to the preparation of the defense or intended for use by the 
prosecutor as evidence at trial or obtained from or belonging to the Defendant have been or will 
be disclosed or otherwise made available. See Exhibit 11A.11 In addition, deputies and officers from 
the Latah County Sheriffs Office, Idaho State Police, Moscow Police Department, Idaho Fish and 
Game and other law enforcement agencies may record their law enforcement contacts via an audio 
recorder or audio/video recorder. Any audio and video recordings related to this matter are 
available for review and duplication on request, subject to the provisions of I.C.R. 16(b )(9). 
Pursuant to said subsection, and except as otherwise specified herein, any such digital media is 
unredacted and may contain protected information, thus further distribution is restricted by I.C.R. 
16(b)(9)(A), unless the State provides express written consent or by order of the Court. 
5. Any results or reports of physical or mental examinations, and of scientific tests or 
experiments, made in connection with the particular case, or copies thereof, within the possession, 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY 2 custody, or control of the prosecuting attorney, the existence of which is known or is available to 
the prosecuting attorney by the exercise of due diligence have been or will be disclosed or 
otherwise made available. See Exhibit "A." 
6. A written list of the names and addresses of all persons having knowledge of 
relevant facts who may be called by the state as witnesses at the trial has been or will be provided 
separately in accordance with I.C.R. 16(b )(6). Any record of prior felony convictions of any such 
persons which is within the knowledge of the prosecuting attorney and all statements made by the 
prosecution witnesses or prospective prosecution witnesses to the prosecuting attorney or the 
prosecuting attorney's agents or to any official involved in the investigatory process of the case 
have been or will be disclosed or otherwise made available. See Exhibit "A." Consistent with 
Ramirez v. State, 119 Idaho 1037 (Ct. App. 1991) and Idaho Public Safety and Security 
Information System (ILETS) restrictions on dissemination of criminal history information, the 
State generally does not seek NCIC reports or Spillman reports of witnesses. Additionally, the 
State may call as witnesses anyone otherwise identified or referred to in reports, statements, or 
other documents referred to in this response. 
7. Any written summary or report of any testimony that the state intends to introduce 
pursuant to Rule 702, 703 or 705 of the Idaho Rules of Evidence at trial or hearing, have been or 
will be disclosed or otherwise made available. See Exhibit "A." This response does not necessarily 
include disclosure of expert witnesses, their opinions, the fact and data for those opinions, or the 
witness's qualification, intended only to rebut evidence or theories that have not been disclosed 
under this rule prior to trial. 
8. Any reports and memoranda in possession of the prosecuting attorney which were 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY 3 made by any police officer or investigator in connection with this investigation or prosecution of 
this case have been or will be disclosed or otherwise made available. See Exhibit "A." 
9. All material or information within the prosecuting attorney's possession or control 
which tends to negate the guilt of the accused as to the offense charged or which would tend to 
reduce the punishment therefore have been or will be disclosed or otherwise made available. See 
Exhibit "A." In addition, with regard to material or information which may be exculpatory as used 
or interpreted, the State requests that the defendant inform the State, in writing, of the defense 
which will be asserted in this case, so counsel for the State can determine if any additional material 
or information may be material to the defense, and thus fulfill its duty under I.C.R. 16(a) and Brady 
v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963). 
10. To the extent that information exists regarding an informant who is not going to be 
produced as a witness, including recordings or written statements of an informant or that identify 
an informant, such information is not subject to disclosure and the State asserts informant privilege 
under I.C.R. 16(g)(2), and prays for appropriate protective orders pursuant to I.C.R. 16(1) as 
necessary. 
11. The State objects to requests by the Defendant for anything not otherwise addressed 
above on the grounds that such requests are outside the scope of !.C.R. 16 and/or are not subject 
to disclosure under ICR 16(g) (work product and informants). 
12. Wherever this Response indicates that certain evidence or materials have been or 
will be disclosed or otherwise made available, such indication should not be construed as 
confirmation that such evidence or materials exist, but simply as an indication that if such evidence 
or materials exist, they have been or will be disclosed or made available to the Defendant. 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY 4 Furthermore, any items which are listed in Exhibit "A" but are not specifically provided, or which 
are referred to in documents which are listed in Exhibit "A," are available for inspection upon 
appointment with the Prosecuting Attorney's Office. Additionally, all property forms, chain of 
custody documents, and similar items, are likewise available for inspection on appointment, and 
are hereby deemed to be part of "Exhibit A" for purposes of this response. 
13. Pursuant to I.C.R. 16G), if the State subsequently discovers additional evidence or 
evidence of additional witnesses, or decides to use additional evidence or witnesses, the State will 
promptly notify the defendant and the Court. 
DATED this-1:1_ day of January, 2023. 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY 5 CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing State's Response to Request 
for Discovery was delivered to the following as indicated: 
Anne Taylor 
Attorney at Law 
PO Box 9000 
Coeur D Alene, ID 83816-9000 D ~ailed 
\,!Zf E-filed & Served/ E-mailed 
D Faxed 
D Hand Delivered 
Dated this ~3 day of January, 2023. 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST 
FOR DISCOVERY 6 EXHIBIT "A" 
Police reports and documents covered by ICR 16 which are in the possession of the State have 
been disclosed to counsel for the defendant as of January 23, 2023. These materials consist of: 
Pages numbered: 
AudioNideo: 1-995 
AVOOOOOl 
Photos: PHOOOOOOOl -PH00001865 
STATE'S RESPONSE TO REQUEST. 
FOR DISCOVERY 7 