OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER Page - 1 Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender Kootenai County Public Defender PO Box 9000 Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 Phone: (208) 446-1700; Fax: (208) 446-1701 Bar Number: 5836 iCourt Email: pdfax@kcgov.us 
Assi
gned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 Jay Weston Logsdon, Chief Deputy Litigation, Bar Number: 8759 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL  DISTRICT OF 
THE STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
CASE NUMB
ER CR29 -22-0002805 
OBJECTION TO MOTION TO 
APPEAL, AMEND AND/OR CLARIFY 
NONDISSEMINATION ORDER 
COMES
 NOW , Bryan C. Kohberger , by and through their attorney, Jay Weston 
Logsdon, Chief Deputy Litigation, and hereby  objects to the Motion to Appeal, Amend and/or 
Clarify Nondissemination Order filed by Shannon Gray as counsel for the Goncalves family. 
This objection is made on the grounds that the Nondissemination Order properly requires Mr. Gray to abide by the clear requirement of the ethical rules of this state.  
ARGUMENT  
I. The Court’s Order is Not Violative of Mr. Gray’s First Amendment Rights  
In his
 Memorandum in Support of Motion for Appeal and/or Clarification of Amended 
Nondissemination Order (hereafter “Memorandum”), Mr. Gray contends that because his STATE OF IDAHO  
Plain
tiff, 
V. 
BRYAN C. K
OHBERGER,  
Def
endant.  Electronically Filed
2/9/2023 1:51 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkOBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 2 clients —the Goncalves family —are classified as “non -party citizens,” application of the Court’s 
Nondissemination Order to him constitutes a prior restraint on his right to free speech under the 
First Amendment. In support of his position, Mr. Gray cites the “Fair Trial and Public 
Disclosure” provision of the ABA Standard for Criminal Justice, IRPC 3.6, as well as the precedent established under Shepard v. Maxwell , 384 U.S. 333 (1966); Nebraska Press. 
Association v. Stuart , 427 U.S. 539 (1976); and Gentile v. State Bar of Nevada, 501 U.S. 1030 
(1991). The issue at hand may be summarized as follows: whether application of a nondissemination order to an attorney representing the family of an alleged murder victim constitutes an intolerable prior restraint on speech.  
The First Amendment prohibits laws “abridging the freedom of speech,” while the Sixth 
guarantees to the criminal defendant “the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury.” 
U.S. Const. Amend. I; IV. Occasionally in conflict where protected pre -trial expression threatens 
the impartiality of the jury, the United States Supreme Court has determined certain parties’ First 
Amendment rights may be limited when exercise of those rights would result in prejudice to the defendant, noting, “[w]ith his life at stake, it is not requiring too much that [the defendant] be tried in an atmosphere undisturbed by so huge a wave of public passion.” Sheppard, 384 U.S. at 
351 (quoting Irvin v. Dowd, 266 U.S. 717, 728 (1961)). As a means of reducing “the appearance 
of prejudicial material and to protect the jury from outside influence,” a trial court may  
“[proscribe] extrajudicial statements by any lawyer, party, witness or court official,” and may also “promulgate a regulation with respect to dissemination of information of information about the case.” Sheppard, 384 U.S. at 358 -62. In either case, “the cure lies in those remedial measures 
that will prevent the prejudice at its inception.” Id., 384 U.S. at 363.  OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 3 One such measure is at issue here. As in Stuart, this Court is presented “with a 
confrontation between prior restraint imposed to protect one vita l constitutional guarantee and 
the explicit command of another that the freedom to speak…shall not be abridged.” Stuart, 427 
U.S. at 570. Unlike in Stuart, however, the regulation at issue is as to an attorney, who may be 
subjected to greater limitations than could be imposed on the press. As the  Supreme Court noted 
in Sheppard:   
The courts must take such steps by rule and regulation that will protect their processes from prejudicial outside interferences. Neither prosecutors, counsel for defense, the accus ed, witnesses, court staff nor enforcement officers coming 
under the jurisdiction of the court should be permitted to frustrate its function. Collaboration between counsel and the press as to information affecting the 
fairness of a criminal trial is not on ly subject to regulation, but is highly 
censurable and worthy of disciplinary measures.  [emphasis added] 
 Sheppard, 384 U.S. 363. This holding was expressly upheld in Gentile, wherein the 
Supreme Court found: 
[T]he speech of lawyers representing clients in  pending cases may be regulated 
under a less demanding standard than that established for regulation of the press in [Stuart ], and the cases which proceeded it. Lawyers representing clients in 
pending cases are key participants in the criminal justice system, and the State may demand some adherence to the precepts of that system in regulating their speech as well as their conduct.  
 
Gentile, 501 U.S. at 1074. In an attempt to exclude himself from these holdings, Mr. Gray argues 
that because his clients “are not parties to the case and therefore are not subject to the Order,” 
(See Memorandum, pg. 3, *6- 8) he too is due an equal measure of deference and exclusion. The 
weight of authority is contrary to this position. 
In Idaho State Bar v. Tapp, 129 Idaho 414, 925 P.2d 1113 (1996), the Idaho Supreme 
Court made clear that courts must “[strike] a reasonable balance between the right of free speech and the State’s legitimate interests in preserving the integrity of its judicial system.” Tapp, 129 
Idaho at 417, 925 P.2d at 1116. In reaching this conclusion, the Tapp Court relied upon the OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 4 Gentile decision which, in the Court’s words, “[balanced] the State’s interests in assuring fair 
trials against the free speech interests of attorneys.” Id. Thus, a ca se-associated speaker’s status 
as a lawyer alters the degree to which their speech is protected.  
This lawyer versus non- lawyer distinction is recognized broadly elsewhere, even in cases 
where the speaker -attorney claims not to be involved with the case in question. In In re Goode, 
821 F.3d 553 (5th Cir. 2016), the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals considered whether an attorney 
who routinely communicated with and occasionally passed notes to the defense could be 
sanctioned for violation of a nondissemination o rder and the Louisiana criminal trial publicity 
rule1 because he was not “a lawyer associated with the defense” or “trial participant,” application 
to whom, Goode argued, the local rule was limited. Goode, 821 F.3d at 557. Rejecting Goode’s 
argument, the Court relied upon Gentile ’s own language that because associated “lawyers have 
special access to information through discovery and client communications…, their extrajudicial statements pose a threat to the fairness of a pending proceeding since lawyers’ statements are likely to be received as especially  authoritative.” Id., 821 F.3d at 560 (quoting Gentile, 501 U.S. 
at 1074). Similar holdings have been reached across the Circuit Courts. See, e.g., Mezibov v. Allen, 411 F.3d 712 (6
th Cir. 2005); In re Morrissey, 168 F.3d 134 (4th Cir. 1999); Berner v. 
Delhanty, 129 F.3d 20 (1st Cir.); U.S. v. Cutler, 58 F.3d 825 (2nd Cir. 1995); Zal v. Steppe, 968 
F.3d 924 (9th Cir. 1992). Further, the 11th and 2nd Circuits have interpreted the ‘heavy 
presumption against constitutionality’ described in Stuart as being uniq ue to “prior restraints 
directed to the press ” and suggested the Supreme Court’s Sheppard holding as suggesting “a 
restrictive order limiting extrajudicial commentary of trial participants as an alternative to a prior 
                                                           
1 L. Crim. R. 53.5, providing: “During the trial of any criminal matter, including the period of selection of the jury, 
no lawyer associated with the prosecution or defense shall give or authorize any ex trajudicial statement or interview, 
relating to the trial or the parties or issues in the trial, for dissemination by any means of public communication, 
except that the lawyer may quote from or refer without comment to public records of the court in the case.”  OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 5 restraint on the media.” The News -Jour nal Corp. v. Foxman, 939 F.2f 1499, 1512- 13 (11th Cir. 
1991) (emphasis in the original); see also Zal, 968 F.2d at 928 (“ [L]awyers representing clients 
in pending cases may be regulated under a less demanding standard than that established for 
regulation of the press.”) (quoting Gentile, 501 U.S. at 1074).  
As in Goode, Mr. Gray has special access to information via his clients. Dissemination of 
information forbidden by the Court’s order would be deemed authoritative as a result of this access and Mr. Gray’s status as an attorney, and therefore would endanger the jury’s impartiality. The Court’s exemption of Mr. Gray’s client s from its Order effectively answers Mr. Gray’s First 
Amendment concerns, while its continued application to him accounts for his apparent authority and special access to facts.   
II. IRPC 3.6 is Not Facially Vague, nor Vague As Applied to Mr. Gray’s Circumstances  
Mr. Gray then argues that even if the Court may order him not to disseminate information 
to the press, because the Court’s order mirrors the language of IRPC 3.6, it is vague on its face and as applied to his circumstances.   
First- IRPC 3.6 is in no way vague on its face. Mr. Gray’s argument on this point is 
premised on a faulty understanding and misreading of the Gentile holding. In Gentile , the 
Supreme Court expressly stated : “We are not called upon to determine the constitutionality of 
ABA Mode l Rule 3.6 (1981), but only Rule 117 as it has been interpreted  and applied by the 
State of Nevada.” Gentile, 501 U.S. at 1036 (emphasis added). Moreover, the Supreme Court 
held, “nothing inherent in Nevada’s formulation of [of the trial publicity rule] fa ils First 
Amendment review; but as this case demonstrates, Rule 117 has not been interpreted in conformance with those principles by the Nevada Supreme Court…” Id., 501 U.S. at 1037. Mr. OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 6 Gray’s assertion that the Gentile Court “held that the wording of [Rules 3.6 and 3.8] was 
unconstitutionally vague” is simply wrong. Because Gentile only found that Nevada’s rule was 
unconstitutional as applied , that decision does not mandate a similar finding when evaluating 
IRPC 3.6. To the contrary, the Supreme Court’s express finding that “nothing inherent” in 
Nevada’s rule failed First Amendment review indicates that the same conclusion is appropriate with regard to IRPC 3.6, which—as Mr. Gray himself states —is “similar in wording” to ABA 
Rule 3.6. 
Mr. Gray’s argument t hat IRPC 3.6 is unconstitutionally vague as applied to his own 
circumstances is also faulty. In Gentile the Supreme  Court found that , “one central point must 
dominate the [Court’s as -applied vagueness] analysis: this case involves political speech …. At 
issue here is the constitutionality of a ban on political speech critical of the government and its 
officials.” Gentile, 501 U.S. at 1034. While it is true that Mr. Gray and the Goncalves family 
have criticized the police in this matter  in the past, since Mr . Kohberger’s arrest their statements 
have been focused on him.  See, e.g. King 5, “ Father of Idaho Murder Victim Says Kohberger 
was “Overwhelmed” in Court ” (Jan. 6, 2023) (available at 
https://www.king5.com/article/news/crime/idaho -murders/father-idaho- murder -victim-
kohberger-court/281-79e6ad39- ca22 -4bf0-837a-04844f96f37c ). 
Additionally, at is sue in Gentile  was the confusion created by the safe harbor exception 
for statements by the defense about their defense. Id . at 1048.  Mr. Gray has essentially agreed 
his client is not a real party to this action and has nothing similar to a defendant’s interest in sharing their defense with the press.  Thus, the vagueness found in Gentile  is inapposite to his 
concerns.  OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 7 III. As an Attorney, Mr. Gray Cannot Claim Vicarious Exemption From the Rules 
of Professional Conduct, and is Therefore Bound by IRPC 3.6 
Finally, Mr. Gray asserts that he is “allowed to relay to the media any of the opinions, 
views, or statements of those family members regarding any part of the case,” regardless of the Rules of Professional Conduct, because it “would place an undue burden on the Victims’ families if the attorney whom they have retained to represent their interests was prohibited from serving as their spokesperson…to the media and other parties in transmitting the Victim’s families thoughts and opinions.” This assertion of vicarious exemption from the Rules of Professional Conduct is plainly baseless. 
Besides being entirely inconsistent with the above -provided precedent, Mr. Gray’s 
position on this issue is contrary to to the long -held acknowledgement that “ [e]ven outside the  
courtroom…, lawyers in pending cases [are] subject to ethical restrictions  on speech which an 
ordinary citizen would not be.” Id., 501 U.S. at 1071 (citing In re Sawyer, 360 US. 622 (1959)). 
Such has always been the case, as “[m]embership in the bar is a privilege burdened with conditions.” Theard v. United States, 354 U.S. 278, 281 (1957) (quoting In re Rouss, 221 N.Y. 
81, 84, 116 N.E. 782, 783 (1917)). Mr. Gray’s representation of the Gonalvez family does not entitle him to the same degree of freedom of speech they enjoy as ordinary citizens. Further, Mr. Gray makes clear that, if his Motion is granted, he will “comment on the case and other issues surrounding the investigation pursuant to Rule 3.6.” What portion of Rule 3.6 M r. Gray invokes 
here is an open question—insofar as the Rule addresses Mr. Gray’s intended subject matter, it expressly identifies it as a subject “more likely than not to have a material prejudicial effect on a proceeding, particularly when they refer to a…criminal matter, or any other proceeding that OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 8 could result in incarceration.” IRPC 3.6, Cmmt. 5. Indeed, the Rule notes that “[c]riminal jury 
trials will be most sensitive to extrajudicial speech.” IRPC 3.6, Cmmt. 6.   
Mr. Gray argues he will not be “offering up [his] own opinion regarding the facts 
surrounding the case,” but rather only “serving as [his client’s] spokesperson (conduit) to the media and other parties in transmitting the Victims’ families thoughts and opinions.” Far from mitigating the alr eady tenuous nature of his argument, this signal of intent again places Mr. Gray 
at odds with Rule 3.6 and Gentile. The Court has already exempted Mr. Gray’s clients from its 
Order, adequately preserving their First Amendment rights. To extend this exempti on to Mr. 
Gray would function solely to grant potentially prejudicial statements the weight recognized as a danger by the Gentile Court, on a subject the Rule distinguishes as already extremely susceptible 
to prejudice. If Mr. Gray truly intends only to voice his clients’ thoughts and opinions, then the Court’s previous exemption has already cured the supposed First Amendment infirmity —Mr. 
Gray’s clients may voice these thoughts and opinions themselves - as they have clearly been 
doing. The sole effect of maintaining the Court’s Order in present form is the continued 
operation of a remedial measure that prevents prejudice at its inception. Mr. Gray is bound by the rules of professional conduct, and “[t]he First Amendment does not excuse him from that obligation.” Gentile, 501 U.S. at 1081.  
DATED this ___ 8____ day of February, 2023. 
 
ANNE C. TAYLOR, PUBLIC DEFENDER  
KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER   
 
 
      BY:   
       JAY WESTON LOGSDON 
       CHIEF DEPUTY LITIGATION  
       ASSIGNED ATTORNEY 
 
OBJECTION TO MOTION TO APPEAL, AMEND   
AND/OR CLARIFY NONDISSEMINATION ORDER    Page - 9 CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___9____ day of February, 2023 addressed to: 
  Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via iCourt: paservice@latahcountyid.gov
 
Shannon Gray – via iCourt shanon@graylaw.org   
        
       
 
 
