MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 1 
  Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney: 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01 -24-31665 
 
 
MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE:  VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED 
EXPERT TESTIMONY  
 
 
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of records, and hereby 
moves the Court for an Order excluding vague and undisclosed expert testimony.   STATE OF IDAHO,  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
2/24/2025 4:54 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkMOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 2 
  Allowing vague and undisclosed expert testimony violates Bryan’s Federal and State 
Constitutional rights to due process, a fair trial, effective assistance of counsel, and confrontation 
of witnesses.  This motion is based on the 5th, 6th and 14th Amendment s to the United States 
Constitution, Article 1 Section 13 of the Idaho Constitution, Idaho Criminal Rule 16 and Idaho Rules of Evidence 102, 104, 701, 702, and 703.  
The Due Process Clause requires that criminal prosecutions “comport with prevailing 
notions of fundamental fairness.” California v. Trombetta, 467 U.S. 479, 485 (1984). The requested exclusions are made to “secure fairness in administration…to the end the truth may be ascertained and proceedings justly determined.” See I.R.E. 102. These matters are ripe for consideration by the Court pursuant to I.R.E. 104 based on the existence of issues that involve preliminary questions of admissibility and because the determination of these issues now fundamentally impacts the defense’s ability to prepare a comprehensive defense and focus on evidence and experts that will actually be at issue in the limited time frame prior to trial.  
Mr. Kohberger hereby incorporates all arguments and authorities contained in his 
accompanying Motion to Preclude the Death Penalty and Adopt Other Necessary Procedures Due to the State’s Numerous Disclosure Violations.  
 
I. Mr. Kohberger requests exclusion and/or limitation of the following expert 
testimony: 
 
1. S-1 Jennie Ayers – Forensic Scientist:  testimony must be limited to only her work depicted 
in Idaho State Police Forensic Laboratory report 25 and her checklist of testing in Mr. Kohberger’s apartment and office.  She has not authored any Laboratory reports expressing opinion.   Any other testimony is outside of Idaho Criminal Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and violates  Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State 
Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.  MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 3  
  2. S-2 FBI Special Agent Nicholas Ballance – testimony must be prohibited as no report 
containing findings or opinions has been produced.  The only disclosures are two 
PowerPoint presentations; one is noted as a draft.  The PowerPoint depicts information derived from cell tower data, call detail records, drive test data and interpretation of the 
same.  It is abundantly clear that in creating this PowerPoint, Special Agent Ballance used an unknown methodology to analyze and visualize certain data contained within the Defendant’s Call Detail Records while omitting and/or ignoring other relevant data.  It is impossible to determine why certain data was included in the PowerPoint while other data was omitted/ignored as Special Agent Ballance has produced no report documenting his actual analysis.  T he omitted/ignored data referenced above is exculpatory evidence in  Mr. 
Kohberger’s defense .  The Call Detail Records, in full, provide partial alibi corroboration.  
As such, the complete lack of disclosure as to any opinion and/or report addressing this issue from Agent Ballance makes it impossible to anticipate what he may testify to as an expert on this matter.  In its Expert Rebuttal disclosures the State provided a summary of 
Special Agent Ballance’s proposed testimony.  Portions of the summary are in direct conflict with his previous PowerPoint disclosures, further complicating Mr. Kohberger’s “guesses” at what his testimony may be .  Mr. Kohberger ’s expert, Sy Ray, has conducted 
a detailed analysis of Special Agent Ballance’s PowerPoint and found severely flawed findings that are well outside of established and known best practices in the field. The PowerPoint is vague and makes it impossible to de termine what Special Agent Ballance is 
claiming.  Thus, the additional summary does not remedy the lack of disclosure leaving Mr. Kohberger an inability to prepare and meet the Constitutional protection of confrontation.  Testimony must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Criminal Rule 16; Idaho MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 4  
  Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State 
Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.  
3. S-3 and S -4 Mr. and Mrs. Barnhart – testimony must exclude everything other than 
specifically disclosed, including purported “habit” evidence.  The State has not produced 
a report specifying what “habits” are referred to.  No expert opinion has been disclosed. Mr. Kohberger cannot prepare to confront purported evidence against him that is undisclosed.  Testimony must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Criminal Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.  
4. S-5 Mr. Cox – Amazon – testimony must be excluded because no opinion, or full analysis 
of the data has been provided. It appears Mr. Cox has credentials to gather data at Amazon, but nothing disclosed indicates he has the expertise to form an opinion on data and if he does have an opinion, based on analysis, neither the analysis or opinion has been disclosed. The full amo unt of raw data received from Amazon has never been disclosed. Only narrow 
dates with some purchases have been disclosed, despite warrants seeking very broad materials, over the span of a year, and according to warrant returns, produced. Excel spreadsheets , apparently relied on by the State, have “redacted” purchases without 
explanation. Contexts for purchases at least six months prior to what has been provided are critical for drawing opinions. There is no full disclosure or analysis of clickstream history  
that spans the scope of the multiple warrants and subpoenas. There is no full Amazon advertising history, AI -Driven recommendations, or cookies disclosed or analyzed. The 
identification of the device(s) used is not disclosed or analyzed, no cart or Wishli st data is 
disclosed or analyzed. No omnichannel tracking data or platforms are disclosed and MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 5  
  analyzed for a household where multiple members used the same Amazon account. The 
search warrants request account -wide data, including linked accounts and device identifiers 
for a year span.  That has not been produced, analyzed or explained as an expert opinion. 
Mr. Kohberger cannot prepare to confront purported evidence against him that is undisclosed, and lacks context. The State has produced a select portion of a whole record; the State has cherry -picked information,  He cannot determine if the State is asserting a 
direct search or review of items algorithmically suggested through Amazon’s ad system.   
Testimony must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Criminal Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process. The subject matter of this testimony is challenged separately in Motion in Limine #15.   
5. S-7 Michael Douglass – any opinion testimony must be excluded. All arguments set forth 
in Shane Cox  in paragraph 4 above, are incorporated for Michael Douglass as it relates to any testimony about Amazon and Amazon Clicks. The State intends to use Agent 
Douglas as an Amazon expert without any explanation, other than what a cherry picked group of records might show.  The State has produced some records and reports  relating 
to documents collected by this witness.  Not all raw data has been disclosed; no explanation of underlying raw data or how it was analyzed has been disclosed. The State has not produced a summary of an opinion about the purported meaning of such documents.  Opinion testimony must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Criminal Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.  MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 6  
  6. S-15 - S-25 various Idaho State Laboratory expert witnesses are anticipated in trial.  To the 
extent their opinions are limited to the reports authored by them and based on their own 
expert evaluation is not the subject of this M otion in L imine.  This motion seeks an order 
preventing testimony outside of their reports.   Testimony through any of these witnesses, other than their own opinions, stated in Idaho State Police Forensic Laboratory Reports, must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Crim inal Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the 
Court’s scheduling order and Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.  
7. S-21 Rylene Nowlin (S -21) has been disclosed. Challenge to her proposed testimony is 
covered in a separate Motion in Limine # 6.  
8. S-22 Eric Seat – The expert opinion of this DNA technician provides an explanation of 
possible testimony regarding a methodology for DNA testing (Y -STR) for which the 
defense has received no discovery or indication that the method has been used in this cas e. 
There is no opinion disclosed other than “because of the large volume of discovery, the State directs the defense to summary reports of the expert’s ultimate conclusions, which can be found in lab report 3”. Lab Report 3 bates 5721- 5731 is DNA data of a n alternate 
suspect, but no ultimate opinion or result is specified.
1  Testimony through this witness, 
other than that relating to an alternate perpetrator, must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho 
Criminal Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and Mr. 
Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional Rights  of a fair trial, confrontation, and due 
process.  
 
1 Motion in Limine #2 Exhibit 1 ISP Lab Report 3  MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 7  
  9. S-10, S -13, and S -14 Mowery, Tanzola, and Uhrig – The State has provided no disclosure 
of any expert opinions related to 67 electronic devices and third- party data collected during 
the investigation.   The State has failed to identify what portions of the electronic device 
data, digital data and/or third party (search warrant return) data will be presented.  The State has failed to disclose  any expert opinion about what any analysis of the devices and 
data depict.  The State has disclosed, in discovery, a new report stating further examination is taking place.
2 That disclosure came well after the State’s discovery deadline.  The report 
does not contain any sort of opinion.  Recently, the State submitted rebuttal expert disclosures.  Repeatedly the State writes that it cannot provide rebuttal as Mr. Kohberger has not provided information about what his experts may say.  The State’s disclosure  
would seem to be the proverbial chicken and egg anecdote except in criminal proceedings the accused has rights under the United States Constitution and the Idaho Constitution.  Court proceedings are rule bound and presiding judges pronounce deadlines.  As such, the State was required to provide expert opinions to which Mr. Kohberger would rebut.   The State’s disclosures remain vague. Mr. Kohberger cannot prepare to confront purported evidence that is undisclosed.  The electronic evidence in this case is critical and the State is impeding the defense from being able to prepare to confront evidence or use evidence in Mr. Kohberger’s Capital trial.  Testimony must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Criminal 
Rule 16; Idaho Rules of Evidence; the Court’s scheduling order and Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.
3 
 
2 Motion in Limine #2 Exhibit 2 Police report indicating additional analysis of Mr. Kohberger’s computer  
3 A companion motion to Strike the Death Penalty because of the State’s repeated failures to produce discovery and 
expert opinions is filed contemporaneously and should be considered in conjunction with this motion.  
 MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 8 
  10. S-7 Detective Gilbertson - the State did not disclose Detective Gilbertson in their initial 
disclosures but instead listed him as a “rebuttal witness.” The State did not identify any 
specific expert or opinion that the Detective will rebut. Thus, the court  should exclude this 
testimony as outside the scope of rebuttal and irrelevant. Moreover, the Court should exclude the testimony under 403(b). The relevance of this testimony is minimal, at best, and carries a serious risk of juror confusion. The detective  walked alone through a house 
that he is intimately familiar with in the middle of broad daylight more than one week after the house had  been vacated and changed significantly due to a homicide investigation. He 
simply counted out loud upon entering rooms. This is a far, far cry from what the State alleges occurred.  Additionally, Mr. Kohberger attempted to learn more about the experiment through discovery; he sought things  such as recordings or photographs of the 
timed run, or written notes taken and documented during the experiment.  Nothing was provided in discovery; the Prosecution stated those items did not exist.
4  Finally, the Court 
should exclude this testimony because it violates Mr. Kohberger’s due process rights. The house has been torn down; the defense cannot now effectively rebut this inflammatory and minimally relevant testimony.  
11. Gary Dawson – this expert was disclosed for the first time in the State’s rebuttal experts.  
He is a toxicology expert.  Mr. Kohberger did not disclose an expert relating to toxicology.  This expert is not a rebuttal expert and should be excluded from trial.   
12. David Mittelman – this expert was disclosed as a Rebuttal expert relating to IGG matters.  
This expert is addressed in a separate motion (See Motion in Limine #12).   
II. It is In the Interests of Fairness, Justice, and Judicial Economy to Exclude the Listed 
Experts.  
 
4 See MIL #2 Exhibit 3 Discovery request and response.  This is Defense 9th Supplemental Discovery Request  Item 211 
and State’s 8th Supplemental Discovery Response, Item 211.  MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 9  
   
Late- disclosed expert opinions do not allow the defense sufficient opportunity to conduct 
the follow up investigation necessary and put the defense at a significant disadvantage. The State 
has turned over numerous generic responses identifying expert names  but only vaguely describing 
the subject matter that they will testify to. The disclosures do not identify the content of the anticipated testimony nor the documents or evidence that the expert relied on to reach that conclusion. “As federal courts applying the analog federal criminal rule have held, a mere list of topics or general subject matter about which an expert witness may testify is not a discovery response that complies with the rule. State v. Morin, 158 Idaho 622, 626, 349 P.3d 1213, 1217 (Ct. App. 2015). The disclosure rules are not simply for case management purposes, but fundamental to a defendant’s right to a fair trial:  
The rules are designed to “promote fairness and candor,” “facilitate 
fair and expedient pretrial fact gathering,” and “prevent surprise at trial.” Edmunds v. Kraner, 142 Idaho 867, 873–78, 136 P.3d 338, 
344–49 (2006) (discussing similar rules applicable to civil cases); see also  cmt. 1993 Amendment to Federal Rule of Criminal 
Procedure 16 (“The amendment [requiring the disclosure of expert 
opinion testimony] is intended to minimize surprise that often results from unexpected expert testimony, reduce the need for continuances, and to provide the opponent with a fair opportunity to test the merit of the expert's testimony through focused cross -
examination.”). These purposes are not accomplished by a generic discovery response of the type presented here.  
 Morin , 158 Idaho at 626.  
Other courts analyzing the analogous federal rules have explained why late disclosures are 
so prejudicial to the opposing party, even in the civil context, in which constitutional protections 
are far fewer than those guaranteed to criminal defendants. For example, in Churchill v. U.S., the trial court found that exclusion of several expert witnesses was necessary when one party complied with the court’s expert disclosure deadline and one party provided only the names of experts and failed to provide detaile d reports or opinions. Case No. 1:09- cv-01846 LJO JLT  (E.D. Cal. Feb. MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 10 
  8, 2011). The Court found that “simply reciting the names of the experts does not prevent surprise 
by the opponent,” id. at 8, and specifically noted the prejudice that occurs when one party complies 
with the deadline and the other party does not, as in this case: “[the State’s] experts have had the 
benefit of being in a position to examine and rebut the opinions set forth b y Defendant’s experts 
in their initial reports. This is a significant litigation advantage.” Id.  at 9. The party who failed to 
comply with the deadline set forth several reasons why the defense was not prejudiced, but the Court observed that forcing the innocent party to complete everything necessary on an expedited timeline was inherently prejudicial to their case:   
Even assuming [all of the necessary investigation and preparation] 
can achieved in six weeks, an ambitious schedule to impose on Defendant as the innocent party, there would be insufficient time for the Court to hear and decide nondispositive motions related to expert discovery before the dispositive motion- filing deadline less than one 
month later on April 12, 2011. (Doc. 25.) Thus, the cascade of time extensions will affect the deadlines set for dispositive motions, the pre-trial conference scheduled for July 6, 2011, and ultimately the 
trial which is currently scheduled for August 12, 2011. ( Id.) 
 
Id. at 10. The Court then noted the importance of parties complying with the scheduling order in 
good faith:  
Plaintiff’s assumption that six months is sufficient time to revamp the scheduling order in this case to timely proceed to trial is mistaken and shows a fundamental misunderstanding of the purpose of the Court's scheduling orders. The dates were not haphaz ardly 
selected or unrelated to the needs of the parties or the Court. Instead, the scheduling order "represent[ed] the best estimate of the court and counsel as to the agenda most suitable to dispose of this case." (Doc. 20 at 6.) As the Ninth Circuit has made clear: "Disruption to the schedule of the court and other parties . . . is not harmless."  Wong v. 
Regents of University of California , 410 F.3d 1052, 1062 (9th Cir. 
2005). "In these days of heavy caseloads, trial courts . . . routinely set schedules and establish deadlines to foster the efficient treatment and resolution of cases."  Id. at 1060. "As the torrent of civil and 
criminal cases unleashed in recent years has threatened to inundate the federal courts, deliverance has been sought in the use of calendar management techniques.  Rule 16
 is an important component of 
those techniques."  Johnson v. Mammoth Recreations, Inc ., 975 F.2d MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 11 
  604, 611 (9th Cir. 1992). Thus, "[a] scheduling order is not a 
frivolous piece of paper, idly entered, which can be cavalierly disregarded by counsel without peril ." Id. at 610 (citations and 
internal quotation marks omitted). " Parties must understand that 
they will pay a price for failure to comply strictly with scheduling . . . orders, and that failure to do so may properly support severe sanctions and exclusions of evidence. " Wong, 410 
F.3d at 1060. 
 
Id. at 10 (emphasis added). See also , Albert D. Seeno Constr. Co. v. Aspen Ins. UK Ltd., No. 17-
CV-03765- SI, 2020 WL 6118497, at *4 (N.D. Cal. Oct. 16, 2020) (excluding witness because the 
report was not provided “until almost three months after  the deadline passed, depriving [the 
opposing party] of time it could have used to prepare accordingly and providing [the disclosing 
party] with a litigation advantage.”); State v. Martinez , 137 Idaho 804, 807, 53 P.3d 1223, 1226 
(Ct. App. 2002) (“In Taylor v. Illinois , the United States Supreme Court stated that when “the 
omission was willful and motivated by a desire to obtain a tactical advantage that would minimize the effectiveness of cross -examination and the ability to adduce rebuttal evidence, it would be 
entire ly consistent with the purposes of the Compulsory Process Clause to exclude the witness' 
testimony.”).  
The same analysis is applicable here and carries even more force. Mr. Kohberger is a 
capital defendant who is entitled to his day in court without undue delay by the prosecution. He is entitled to a “heightened standard of reliability” because prosecutors are seeking his execution. Prejudice is magnified in a criminal case when the State has the advantage of the defendant’s expert disclosures in drafting their initial expert opinions. The State has the resources of dozens, if not hundreds, of people working on its behalf from various state and federal agencies. It has the 
advantage of technology that is available only to law enforcement agencies, and not to the defense. It is bringing the full resources of the State of Idaho to bear, alongside assistance from the federal government, while Mr. Kohberger has a defense team consisting of three attorneys, one MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 12 
  investigator, and one mitigation specialist, who must not only review all of the State’s evidence, 
but conduct an independent investigation into both the circumstances of the crime and into Mr. 
Kohberger’s entire life history. The preexisting resource disparity must be taken into account when 
assessing the additional tactical advantage that the State has improperly obtained.  
Notably, the State did not seek modification of the scheduling order to allow for a later 
disclosure deadline, which would have equally applied to the defense and would not have given the prosecution a tactical advantage. See id.  at 11. It is fundamentally unfair for the State to shirk 
the Court’s order and reap the tactical advantage of being able to review the defense’s expert opinions before making their initial disclosures, in addition to the already existing advantage in resources. The Court should exclude the listed expert reports and evidence listed above and 
preclude the death penalty at trial in order to cure some measure of the prejudice to Mr. Kohberger.  
 
DATED this ___ 24____ day of February, 2025. 
          
      
        
      BY:   _____________________________ 
       ANNE  C. TAYLOR  
       ANNE  TAYLOR  LAW,  PLLC  
 
  
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___24____ day of February, 2025 addressed to: 
 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov  
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov   
 
MOTION IN LIMINE #2  
RE: VAGUE AND UNDISCLOSED EXPERT TESTIMONY     Page 13 
        
       
     
 
 
