 
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 1  Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney: 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01 -24-31665 
 
 
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  
 
RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE  
 
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of record, and pursuant 
to the Idaho Rules of Evidence, moves this Honorable Court for an Order to Exclude Evidence of 
IGG testing and searches.  This motion is based on the Idaho Rules 16(b)(1 -8) and that 
presentation of such evidence would violate Mr. Kohberger’s State and Federal Constitutional STATE OF IDAHO,  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
2/24/2025 4:54 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy Clerk 
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 2  rights to a fair trial under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments and his right to confront the 
evidence against him and to have competent counsel under the Sixth Amendment.   
RELEVANT FACTS  
 A knife sheath that was recovered at 1122 King Road, Moscow Idaho on November 13, 
2022.  The sheath was tested using standard DNA STR methods by the Idaho State Police (ISP) lab.  This profile was uploaded to the CODIS DNA database and resulted in no hits to known 
offenders.  
 The Moscow Police Department, with the assistance of the Idaho State Forens ics Lab, 
transferred extracted DNA from Q1.1 to Othram labs, located in Texas on November 22, 2022. Othram promised to preserve all of its work in this case in the engagement agre ement and 
proceeded to test the Q1.1 DNA using SNP (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism) techniques. Othram generated a “profile” using SNP and began building a family tree for Q1.1, looking for the closest relatives of the sample in commercial databases that allow law enforcement searches, GEDMatch 
Pro and FamilyTreeDNA.  
On December 10, 2022, Othram was asked to cease work on the case by the prosecutors 
despite the fact that their genealogy investigation was incomplete.
1  Othram reported that they had 
identified a number of close relations to the knife sheath via searches of FamilyTreeDNA and GEDMatch Pro and suggested obtaining DNA samples from three individuals to further their investigation.  In an email, directing the  stop work, lab manager Matthew Gamette directed Othram 
to “preserve the whole genome profile that you have generated on this case, any remaining DNA extract,  . . . any data generated on this case, and any other records [Othram] has on this case, and 
anything else laid out in the state contract with Idaho, until the Moscow PD and the Latah County 
POA communicate that such information does not need to be retained by Othram labs.”
2  
 
1 Motion in Limine 11 Exhibit 1 Othram report December 16, 2022.  
2 Motion in Limine #11 Exhibit 2 Discovery, Bates 15378.   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 3  After Mr. Kohberger was charged, he swiftly requested discovery relating to the IGG 
testing and family tree building that led to his arrest (May 3, 2023, Defendant’s 3rd Supplemental 
Request for Discovery).  Mr. Kohberger laid out the rationale for his request in his 3rd Motion to 
Compel, and a series of affidavits (filed June 22, 2023).   
The State filed a Motion for Protective Order (June 16, 2023) in advance of Mr. 
Kohberger’s motion to compel.  In the Motion for Protective Order the State drew a strong 
distinction between the work done by Othram to generate a SNP profile and the work done to generate a family tree from the SNP data, in effect arguing that the family tree building did not fall under the Idaho rule of discovery for a number of reasons.  However, in this motion and during argument on the motion, the State conceded that the t esting done by Othram to generate the SNP 
data fell under I.C.R. 16(b)(5) and stated: “the private laboratory developed the SNP profile from the DNA on the Ka -Bar knife sheath.  As required by Rule 16(b)(5), the State will produce the 
report that documents  that DNA test.” (Motion for Protective Order at 14).  
The court after hearing testimony from a number of defense expert witnesses, found that 
the defense had met the threshold “required to show at least some of the IGG information sought is material to the preparation of the defense” and issued an order for p roduction of the “all of the 
IGG information in the possession, custody or control of the State” for in camera  review. (Order 
Addressing IGG DNA and Order for In Camera Review, at 20, 31 October 25, 2023).  On 
November 30, 2023, the State provided material s to the Court for review, along with a table of 
items.  The listed items included FBI materials, ISP emails, Othram emails and documents, shipment of DNA profile documents and ISP/Othram contracts
3.  The Court ordered release of the 
majority of the materials, with the exception of the generic contract documents of the MOU 
 
3 Motion in Limine #11 Exhibit 3 Bates 15302.   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 4  between the ISP, Moscow PD, Latah County POA and Othram.  (Sealed Order for Disclosure of 
IGG Information and Protection Order, December 29, 2023.)  
After review of these materials, Mr. Kohberger requested additional discovery materials in 
his 15th Supplemental Discovery Request relating to work done by Othram and the FBI.4  He 
sought materials to encompass essentially all of the materials that are normally produced along with lab reports for scientific testing.  The State objected and Mr. Kohberger filed his 5
th Motion 
to Compel (Filed April 15, 2024).  In a hearing on May 30, 2024, extensive expert testimony was again heard by the Court as to the necessity of the materials sought.  The requested items included, among other things, raw data files for SNP testing, standard operating procedures (SOPs), 
validation summaries, contamination logs, and bioinformatics programs and protocols. At the end of the testimony, the State through Mr. Nye argued the motion to compel.  In a striking exchange, Mr. Nye represented t o the Court:  
the Court makes the decisions, and so we complied with that order. And we reached 
out to the FBI and Othram and said, you got to give us what you have. We’ve talked a lot about -- and we’ve referenced a letter from the FBI today. I thought the letter 
itself did a pretty good job laying out what they do and don’t have, what they have access to and what they don’t. We have talked to Othram. We’ve spoken to Othram since we have gotten this Exhibit N and provided them these requests.  And we are not in the posi tion --- for example, request 1 through 6, we are not fighting 
those . I’m not saying we are not going to turn those over. In my view, they fall 
pretty clearly under the Court’s order . The issue is, we go to Othram and show 
them these, and Othram says, we have given you everything. You have everything. Everything we have was given to the Court and then provided to the Defense. So, there’s nothing on this list that we are holding back because we think we have some 
justification. (Transcript, 5/30/24 at pg 84- 85.) 
 
Items 1 -6 in Exhibit N are the materials described above that pertain to the SNP DNA 
testing done by Othram labs.   Mr. Nye emphasized that Othram told the prosecution that as to the specific requests outlined in Items 1 -6 of Exhibit N, “Othram is just telling us we don’t have it, so 
there’s nothing we can do.” (Id. at 85).  The Court then inquired:  
 
4 Motion in Limine #11 Exhibit 4 Discovery Request “Exhibit N”   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 5  THE COURT: So Othram has said – you’ve asked them, and they said we’ve given 
you everything we have?  
 
MR. NYE: Yes. (Id. at 86). 
 
Mr. Nye reiterated that the State knew that if the documents listed in Exhibit N, 1 -6, existed, 
the State had an obligation to turn those material over to Mr. Kohberger: “And with the rest of it, 
we are turning it over if it exists and if we have it. That’ s all.” ( Id. at 92).  
In the court’s order related to the specific request in Exhibit N, the court relied in toto on 
the representations of the State, specifically referencing Mr. Nye’s statement about items 1 -6: “The 
State indicated that the material sought in this request doe s not exist.”  (Order on Defendant’s 4th 
and 5th Motions to Compel Discovery, at 8, June 14, 2024.)  
On January 23, 2025, a hearing was held before this Court regarding the suppression of 
DNA- IGG and Mr. Kohberger’s Franks  proffer hearing.  During that hearing Matthew Gamette 
testified regarding the state’s relationship with Othram, the contracting process and specific information about the IGG work done by Othram prior to its SNP data being passed to the FBI.  Mr. Gamette was involved in the original process that led to the IGG contract with Othram (TX 1 -
23-25, at 89) which involved coming up with specifi cations for the scope of work for the contract.  
Mr. Gamette specifically testified that “manuals, protocols were provided back to us as part of the bid” ( Id. at 91).  Mr. Gamette also testified that the contract with Othram  
specifies that they would keep any data or other things associated with that. . .  And 
so in this case I don’t know if they have other data or other records that they have kept, they have retained. We had asked them, as part of the termination in this case of our work, that they would preserve those things or that they would communicate with both the prosecutor's office and with Moscow Police Department if any of that information was to be disposed or whatnot . (Id.at 92 
[emphasis added].)  
 
Mr. Gamette stated that protocols and procedures were received from Othram in 2021 during the 
bidding process, he believed would “likely exist.” ( Id. at 112).  In response to the new revelations 
in Mr. Gamette’s testimony that the State had in its possession the protocols of the lab through the  
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 6  contracting process as well as other significant materials, Mr. Kohberger filed his 22nd 
supplemental discovery request on January 28, 2025, requesting multiple items relating to Mr. Gamette’s testimony.  In its response, dated February 11, 2025, the State  objected to a number of 
items.  For purposes of this motion, the State response to request numbers 424 and 425 raises the specter of prosecutorial misconduct.  Mr. Kohberger specifically requested “All Othram lab Protocols/Policy and Procedures, and validation studies in place in December 2022 as testified about by Matthew Gamette on 1/23/25,” as well as all bench notes, electronic data files (.fastq), photographs and quality records.
5   
The State objected to this request in particular as being untimely and stated that  “[t]he 
court did not require the State to produce any of the other bidding documentation, including Othram’s bid submission that discussed Othram’s accreditation status, ot her customers, past cases, 
the name and qualifications of the primary genealogist, the name and qualifications of the chief scientist, and the SOPs or analytical methods that were to be used.”
6   This was the first time that 
the defense had been made aware of the contents of the material provided to the court for in camera  
review.  Had Mr. Kohberger known that the materials contained the information described, certainly would have sought the specific listed information.  Because Mr. Kohberger did not know 
the materials provided to the court included reference to SOPs and analytical methods, and because 
Mr. Nye affirmatively represented that Othram had no such documentation, Mr. Kohberger did 
not ask the court to reconsider its order regarding production  of the materials after the in camera  
review or at the hearing on May 30, 2024 ( See Attached Exhibit 4, Item 4,).  
Most troubling is the last statement in the State’s February 11, 2025, objection, that while 
the materials provided to the court for review contained references to the SOPs, the SOPs were 
 
5 These items are essentially identical to Items 1 -6 from Exhibit N filed in support of Mr. Kohberger’s Fifth Motion to 
Compel.  
6 Motion in Limine #11 Exhibit 5 State’s response to Defendant’s 22nd Supplemental Discovery Request   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 7  “inadvertently excluded from the materials.” Consequently, the court was misled about the 
materials reviewed in camera  resulting in deprivation of clearly discoverable documentation. The 
State objects to the production of materials that it conceded in 2023 Mr. Kohberger was entitled to.   
Just six days later, on February 17, 2025, in its Expert Witness Rebuttal, the State provided 
a disclosure for David Mittelman.
7  Mittelman is the CEO of Othram labs.  The proposed testimony 
concerns the testing done by Othram to generate the SNP profile.  The proposed testimony covers 
the testing methods used by Othram, validation and quality standards.  All of these topics were 
covered in Mr. Kohberger’s Fifth Motion to Compel.  
ARGUMENT  
“Under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, criminal prosecutions must 
comport with prevailing notions of fundamental fairness. We have long interpreted this standard of fairness to require that criminal defendants be afforded a meaningful o pportunity to present a 
complete defense. To safeguard that right, the Court has developed ‘what might loosely be called the area of constitutionally guaranteed access to evidence.’” ( California v. Trombetta 467 U.S. 
479,485 (1984) [citations omitted].)  “ ’[S]uppression by the prosecution of evidence favorable to 
the accused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecution.’”  ( Arizona v Youngblood 
488 U.S. 51, 53 (1988), quoting United States v. Valenzuela–Bernal , 458 U.S. 858, 867 (1982).)  
The Idaho Supreme Court recognized that non disclosure cases can be place into three different 
categories: 1) “’the undisclosed evidence demonstrates that th e prosecution’s case includes 
perjured testimony and that the prosecution knew, or should have known, of the perjury’” ( United 
States v Agurs , 427 U.S. 97, 103 (1976)); 2) Brady  type cases where the prosecution is put on 
 
7 David Mittelman was disclosed in the State’s Rebuttal Expert disclosure.   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 8  notice of “what is specifically desired. Thus, the prosecutor should be well aware of what evidence 
will be of assistance, and such notice should correspondingly raise the level of the prosecution’s duty to disclose;” and 3) where no specific request for newly discovered and potentially exculpatory evidence was made by the defense. ( Paradis v. State , 110 Idaho 534, 538- 39 (1986).)  
Separately, “the problem of alleged loss or destruction by the state of allegedly exculpatory 
evidence. . . . raise additional difficulties, such as that of deciding how materially favorable the evidence is to the defendant’s case and implementing an adequate remedy where justified. Usually, the only feasible remedy is dismissal of the prosecution or suppression of evidence that would have been impeached by the lost or destroyed evidence.” Id.  at 539 [emphasis added].   
Mr. Kohberger is now asking for the remedy of exclusion because at this late date, he will 
be unable to investigate the impact of the evidence itself as well as the consequence of withholding such evidence, even if the missing discovery is produced at this  point.  Mr. Kohberger’s right to 
receive and review this evidence is guaranteed by the 5
th, 6th and 14th Amendments to the United 
States Constitution and Article 1 Section 13 of the Idaho Constitution.  
In this case, the question of whether the State has withheld or concealed evidence 
specifically requested by Mr. Kohberger, is evident in the record as laid out above. Knowing that 
Mr. Kohberger was seeking such evidence, the State in bad faith failed to produce the evidence it 
conceded Mr. Kohberger was entitled to as early as 2023 and now for the first time has informed 
Mr. Kohberger and this court that some of the material sought was in their possession in 2023.   
A. Brady violation 
 
The basic tenet of Brady  stands to this day: “the suppression by the prosecution of evidence 
favorable to an accused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to 
guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecution.”  (Brady v 
Maryland 373 U.S. 83, 87 (1963).)   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 9  if the subject matter of such a request is material, or indeed if a substantial basis 
for claiming materiality exists, it is reasonable to require the prosecutor to respond either by furnishing the information or by submitting the problem to the trial judg e. When the prosecutor receives a specific and relevant request, the 
failure to make any response is seldom, if ever, excusable.  
 
(Paradis v. State  110 Idaho 534 (1986)[quoting Augurs , 427 U.S. at 106].)  Here, Mr. Kohberger 
repeatedly requested materials related to IGG and the court found that he had made a showing of 
materiality as to the records sought through discovery requests and motions to compel. The Court held two hearings on Mr. Kohberger’s motion to compel.  In its first order dated November 13, 2022, Judge Judge of the Latah County District Court, after hearing evidence, issued an order explaining that Mr. Kohberger had es tablished sufficient evidence at the hearing to meet the “low 
threshold” of materiality for “at least some of the IGG information sought” (Order Addressing IGG DNA and Order for In Camera Review, at 20).  The focus of the order was on the second 
bucket of material identified by both Mr. Kohberger and the State, noting that “[a]ccording to the State, the rule only requires the disclosure of the results or reports themselves, in this case the STR 
DNA profile and the SNP DNA profile created from the Ka -Bar kni fe,” and “[i]t is undisputed that 
the SNP profile itself is the result of a scientific test done on evidence in the case,” acknowledging that the State had conceded that under Rule 16(b)(5), it was required to produce the results of the testing done by Othram labs. ( Id. at 22 -23). 
The court then conducted an in camera  review of the totality of the IGG material provided 
by the State concerning the construction of the family tree by Othram and then the FBI.  The court ordered the production of essentially all of the reviewed material with the exception of certain documents pertaining to the contract between Othram and the State (Sealed Order for Disclosure 
of IGG Information and Protection Order, dated December 29, 2023).  
The State provided test results in the form of two large text files, one identified as being 
the data produced by Othram and the second as the data produced by the FBI.  Still not having 
received the promised material regarding the SNP testing conducted by Othram, Mr. Kohberger  
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 10  renewed his request for the material in his 15th Supplemental discovery request and filed his Fifth 
Motion to Compel Discovery.  A hearing was held in the Latah County District Court on May 30, 
2024, during which the State reiterated that Mr. Kohberger was entitled to the requested material 
but that requested material did not exist.  The requested material was laid out in Exhibit N and 
included all bench notes, all electronic data, all protocols and SOPs, all contamination logs, and 
validation summaries.  
During the most recent hearing before this Court, Mr. Gamette testified that during the 
contracting process, the State had received at least the protocols for testing from Othram and that 
the materials most likely were still in the State’s possession.  Mr.  Kohberger renewed his request 
for the production of this material in light of Mr. Gamette’s testimony in its 22nd discovery request.  
In request #424, Mr. Kohberger requested “[a]ll Othram lab Protocols/Policy and Procedures, and 
validation studies in pla ce in December 2022 as testified about by Matthew Gamette on 1/23/25” 
to which the state responded 
Othram’s protocols and procedures in the context of the bidding process. The 
documents related to the bidding were included in or referenced in the materials provided to the court to review in camera. The court required the State to discover only the MOU f rom the bidding documents. (See Sealed Order for Disclosure of 
IGG Information and Protective Order, p.5, filed 12/29/2023 [“The State need only 
discover pages 99- 103, the Memorandum of Understanding. The remaining 
contract documents are not relevant to an y issue in the case.”]).  
 
The court did not require the State to produce any of the other bidding 
documentation, including Othram’s bid submission that discussed Othram’s accreditation status, other customers, past cases, the name and qualifications of the 
primary genealogist, the name and qualifications of the chief scientist, and the 
SOPs or analytical methods that were to be used. Though the SOPs were 
inadvertently excluded from the materials reviewed in camera, the bidding document referencing the SOPs were included and the cour t did not require 
disclosure of that document or the SOPs.  
 If the defense thought it should have access to any of the protected materials, the 
proper procedure would have been to move the court to reconsider its decision on 
the protective order and the proper time would have been prior to the defense’s 
deadline fo r discovery motions. 
 
(See attached Exhibit 5 [emphasis added]).   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 11   This objection is incomprehensible in light of the State’s concession that the material 
requested in request 424 was for materials that the State has repeatedly conceded were discoverable 
under Rule 16(b)(5), and assuring the court on May 30, 2024, that t he State understood its 
obligation to produce the material.   
 Not until February 2025 did Mr. Kohberger learn that the State had possession of 
minimally, the SOPs and protocols requested in their Fifth Supplemental Motion to Compel.  Why did the State not alert the court at the hearing on May 30, 2024, that in part the materials sought by Mr. Kohberger were included in the material provided for in camera  review in October 2023?  
And most troubling, why did the State represent that the materials from Othram did not exist, when in fact at least some of the materials re quested were in the possession of the Latah County 
Prosecutor’s office?  Idaho Rule of Prof. Conduct 3.3(a) requires that a lawyer not make “a false statement of fact or law to a tribunal or fail to correct a false statement of material fact or law previously made to the tribunal by the lawyer.”  
 In addition, the State seems to imply that Mr. Kohberger had a duty to ask the court to 
reconsider the decision regarding the material review in camera  without knowing that the materials 
sought were contained in the reviewed materials, something the State now acknowledges and did not disclose.  As noted in the State’s Response, not only was the SOP itself “inadvertently” not provided for the review but t he inventory supplied to the court and Mr. Kohberger listed the 
materials in the most generic terms as “ ISP/Othram Contract Documents” (See Attached Exhibit 
3).    The State’s response appears disingenuous.  By essentially hiding the existence of the 
requested material under an innocuous and generic title, and not informing the court that at least a portion of the documents requested were actually already in the pos session of the court in the form 
of the in camera  submission, the State then falsely claimed that none  of the documents requested 
existed.   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 12   The State’s objection to the timeliness of the request is not well taken because Mr. 
Kohberger only learned for the first time in January 2025, that material sought his Third and Fifth 
Motions to compel were in the possession of the State after representa tions that these materials did 
not exist and that in fact the Latah County Prosecutor’s Office had been in possession of a portion of those materials as early as late 2023.  
 The same arguments apply to Mr. Kohberger’s request #425, 
Othram lab materials created, collected or held pursuant to the policy and protocol 
in place as testified to by Matthew Gamette on 1/23/25. This request includes but is not limited to: all bench notes, original electronic data files (.fastq), photographs, quality records including positive and negative controls and degradation/contamination documents, bioinformatic methods, and documents related to case file #OCN221122- 01. 
 And request #426  
 
All documents and records produced to the FBI, including but not limited to documents and records from Othram, Moscow Police Department, Idaho State Police and Latah County Prosecutor’s Office.  
 
 Finally, on February 17, 2025, the State produced a disclosure for rebuttal witness David 
Mittelman of Othram labs.  Mittelman will testify about the methods, validations and quality 
systems in place at Othram among other topics.  All of these topics are covered by the requests for discovery made in the Third and Fifth Motions to Compel.  If Mittelman is allowed to testify, Mr. Kohberger would be unable to effectively confront his testimony given the dearth of documents regarding the lab testing.  Counsel for Mr. Kohberger would be ineffective given the timing of this disclosure and the topics raised in the disclosure.  As Mittlemen points out, any credible opinion that Mr. Kohberger might seek would require an expert witness with extensive direct experienc e 
with SNP testing and FIGG to speak to the highly technical aspects of the testing and FIGG analysis.  Mr. Kohberger is prejudiced, as set forth below  
“The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires the State to disclose to 
criminal defendants favorable evidence that is material either to guilt or to punishment.” California  
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 13  v. Trombetta 467 U.S. 479, 480 (1984).  The Due Process Clause requires “that criminal defendants 
be afforded a meaningful opportunity to present a complete defense. To safeguard that right, the 
Court has developed ‘what might loosely be called the area of constitutionally guaranteed access to evidence.’” Id . at 485 [quoting Unites States v. Valenzuela- Bernal , 458 U.S. 858, 867 (1982).  
The Idaho Supreme Court  
announced a test for determining when a defendant’s due process rights have been 
violated by the State’s loss or destruction of allegedly exculpatory evidence:  
 
“(1) whether the evidence was material to the question of guilt or the degree of punishment; (2) whether the defendant was prejudiced by the loss or destruction of the evidence; and (3) whether the government was acting in good faith when it destroyed or l ost the evidence.”  
 
(State v. Ish 166 Idaho 492, 514 [quoting Paradis v. State , 110 Idaho 534, 539 (1986).])  
 
We have recognized that the Supreme Court’s subsequent  
decision in Youngblood consolidated these three factors  
in cases where the destroyed evidence is of unknown value  
“through its reasoning that materiality and prejudice to the  
defense can be presumed where the government acts in bad  
faith.  
 
(State v. Ish, at 514 [quoting Stuart v. State  127 Idaho 806, 816].)  
1. Materiality  
In this case, the court has already found that the IGG materials are material.  The State has 
conceded that the testing from Othram falls under Rule 16(b)(5), requiring that the State produce 
the material.  
2. Prejudice  
As set forth above, Mr. Kohberger has requested materials relating to IGG testing in two 
motions to compel, and in response to both motions, the State has conceded that materials relating to the testing conducted by Othram are discoverable under Rule 16(b) (5).  Despite this, Mr. 
Kohberger sits in an untenable position.  Discovery has closed, expert disclosures have been exchanged, the time for filing motions to dismiss has passed, in Limine motions are being filed  
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 14  and trial is rapidly approaching.  Mr. Kohberger’s motion to suppress and Franks  are impacted by 
the failure to timely produce discovery as these materials may have provided information relevant 
to the issues presented, particularly to what information Othram obtained via the testing.8   
Additionally, the State now has noticed witness David Mittelman, CEO of Othram, who 
will testify in “rebuttal” to Mr. Kohberger’s IGG witnesses.  The proposed testimony covers topics such as validation, policy and lab protocols and quality measures.  All of these topics were covered in Mr. Kohberger’s discovery requests.  Mr. Kohberger is left in the position of not being able to cross examine Mittelman effectively due to the complete lack of discovery of the material requested.  The prejudice to Mr. Kohber ger is clear.  
Even if the court orders production of the materials sought at this late date, Mr. Kohberger, 
is significantly handicapped.  Had Mr. Kohberger received these materials in a timely fashion in 2023, he would have been able to utilize the materials for motion work and consultation with 
experts and be prepared to proceed to trial.   
3. Bad faith  
 Here, bad faith is evident, and materiality and prejudice should be presumed.  The State, 
after conceding that they were required to turn over the testing conducted by Othram, failed to do so.  When pressed at the May 30, 2024, hearing on the existence of the material sought, the State affirmatively stated that the material did not exist.  Mr. Kohberger has just learned that during that hearing the State did have at least a portion of the requested material: the lab polices and protocols and SOPs. The State  knew in May 2024 that while they had failed to provide the court with the 
actual SOP, that the court had substantial material in its possession that would in part have satisfied 
 
8 One of the State’s arguments regarding the Motion to Suppress is that the State did not have access to SNP data relevant 
to medical information, one of the key arguments in Mr. Kohberger’s motion.  The documents from Othram could have 
bolstered Mr. Kohber ger’s arguments.   
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 15  Mr. Kohberger’s request.  The State had a duty to inform the court but instead misled the court 
into believing that the materials did not exist and were not in the possession of the State. 
These circumstances have given the State an evidentiary advantage because of their failure 
to be fully candid with the court during the discovery process.  This is especially true in that the State now intends to call a witness from Othram labs who can onl y be effectively cross examined 
with the material sought by Mr. Kohberger and concealed by the State. In doing so, the State has hidden or perhaps caused to be destroyed material evidence necessary for Mr. Kohberger to present a full defense.  This type of  conduct violates both Federal and State Due Process rights.  In order 
to even the playing field, the court should sanction the State, even if the requested discovery is produced.  
The State has benefited by the taking of testimony of Mr. Kohberger’s witnesses at the 
January 23, 2025 hearing as well as Mr. Kohberger’s timely production of expert disclosures regarding their intended testimony at trial.  Given the posture of this case, the conduct of the State 
in hiding the evidence and the late disclosure of Mittelman as an expert, Mr. Kohberger seeks to exclude all evidence of the IGG work and does not intend to call the witnesses Leah Larkin and Daniel Hellwig.
9  Furthermore, if Mr. Kohberger does not call Larkin or Hellwig, Mittelman’s 
testimony is no longer rebuttal, it would have to be presented in the State’s case in chief.  The late disclosure and failure to produce the requested discovery violates not only Idaho law but also the 
order of this Court regarding discovery and expert disclosure deadline as well as Mr. Kohberger’s due process and confrontation rights.  The court should exclude all reference to the IGG process from SNP testing to the construction of the family tree.  
  
 
9 If the court denies this motion to exclude IGG, then Mr. Kohberger may be required to call these witnesses as rebuttal 
to Mittelman .  
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 16  CONCLUSION 
 Mr. Kohberger’s motion should be granted.  Additionally, the court should sanction the 
State by excluding the IGG evidence in the form of the testimony of Mittelman based on their 
violations of the court’s order regarding discovery sanctions and its bad faith behavior in concealing evidence that it knew was required to be discovered and that it had in its possession.  Such a serious sanction is warranted in the face of the State’s conduct and to remedy the prejudice to Mr. Kohberger.  
DATED this ___ 24____ da
 y of February, 2025. 
 
 
___________________________________ 
       BICKA BARLOW  
       ATTORNEY AT LAW  
   
  
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
i
ndicated below on the ___24____ day of February, 2025, addressed to: 
  Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: emassotht@kmrs.net   
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov  
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
  
       
      ____________________________________ 
 
 
MOTION IN LIMINE #11  RE: EXCLUDE IGG EVIDENCE    Page 17    