MOTION IN LIMINE #10 RE:  IMPROPER EXPERT  
OPINION TESTIMONY - MITTELMAN        Page 1 
  Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney: 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01 -24-31665 
 
 
MOTION IN LIMINE #10  
 
RE:  IMPROPER EXPERT OPINION 
TESTIMONY - MITTELMAN  
 
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of records, and hereby 
moves the Court for an Order excluding improperly expert testimony, David Mittelman.   
Allowing improper expert testimony violates Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State 
Constitutional rights to due process, a fair trial, effective assistance of counsel, and confrontation 
of witnesses.  This motion is based on the 5th, 6th and 14th Amendments to the United States STATE OF IDAHO,  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
2/24/2025 4:54 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkMOTION IN LIMINE #10 RE:  IMPROPER EXPERT  
OPINION TESTIMONY -  MITTELMAN        Page 2  
  Constitution. Article I Section 13 of the Idaho Constitution, Idaho Criminal Rule 16 and Idaho 
Rules of Evidence 102, 104, 701, 702, and 703. The requested exclusions are made to “secure 
fairness in administration…to the end the truth may be ascertained an d proceedings justly 
determined. See I.R.E. 102. Further, the above -requested matters are ripe for consideration by the 
Court pursuant to I.R.E. 104 based on the existence of issues that involve preliminary questions of admissibility.  
On February 17, 2025, the prosecution submitted the disclosure for rebuttal witness David 
Mittelman of Othram labs.  In the disclosure, Mittelman offers multiple opinions as to the quality of the work done by Othram labs in generating a SNP profile and for  starting the IGG search for 
relatives of the SNP profile.  In addition to these opinions, Mittelman offers multiple objectionable opinions that fall outside of the proper role of an expert and are highly speculative.   
A. Mittelman should be excluded as a witness based on failure to disclose in a 
timely fashion and due process  
 
As set forth in In Limine Motion to Exclude IGG (Motion in Limine #11)  Mr. Mittelman 
and his proposed testimony were disclosed for the first time on February 17, 2025.  Mr. Kohberger 
incorporates by reference the facts and arguments presented in that motion.  Due to the later 
discovery and the motion t o exclude IGG altogether, Mittelman is no longer a rebuttal witness and 
his untimely disclosure puts Mr. Kohberger at a significant evidentiary disadvantage and his testimony along with the rest of the IGG evidence, must be excluded.  
B. Mittelman offers opinions that must excluded because they are highly 
speculative  
 
The State offers the following opinions:  
Mittelman will testify that the collection of DNA evidence from the crime  scene, 
the development of an STR profile, and its entry into CODIS all took place before Othram’s involvement in the case. With an STR profile already in CODIS, identifying the suspe ct was ultimately a matter of time.  
 Othram was engaged to build a SNP profile and perform forensic genetic genealogy to accelerate the investigative process. While this approach expedited the MOTION IN LIMINE #10 RE:  IMPROPER EXPERT  
OPINION TESTIMONY -  MITTELMAN        Page 3  
  identification, it did not change the inevitable outcome —the suspect would have 
been identified regardless.  
 
The FBI’s role may have further accelerated the work Othram had already begun, but Othram was on track to reach the same conclusion. This is evident from the preliminary, incomplete report Othram provided after being asked to stop its efforts.  
 In this case, additional reference testing was always going to lead to the identification of Mr. Kohberger, regardless of which agency completed the process or when it occurred.  
 
All of the above opinions are improper because they are highly speculative.  “’An expert 
opinion that merely suggests possibilities, not probabilities, would only invite conjecture and may 
be properly excluded.’”  Nield v. Pocatello Health Servs., Inc., 156 Idaho 802, 815 (2014)[quoting 
Slack v. Kelleher  140 Idaho 916, 923 (2004)].  Mittelman’s disclosure states no facts to support 
this opinion.  These opinions appear to be Mittelman’s belief in DNA testing rather than a reasoned expert opinion based on fac ts.  Admission of these opinions would invite conjecture and should be 
excluded.  
The first opinion seems to assume that at some point in time, Mr. Kohberger’s DNA would 
be entered into CODIS.  The only way into CODIS is via the commission or conviction for a 
felony.  This assumption is improper and would mislead the jury and would crea te cross 
examination on this issue that would take an undue consumption of time.   
Not only are the opinions above highly speculative as to what would have occurred rather 
than what did occur, they are irrelevant. The opinions do nothing to prove guilt or innocence and seemed geared to simply promote the technology of DNA testing.  While  this goal is not improper, 
the means is.  As the disclosure sets forth, Mittelman will testify about his lab, their processes and their quality systems.  The speculative opinions add nothing other than confusion and will result in an undue consumption of time.  
This testimony must be prohibited pursuant to Idaho Rules of Evidence, and Mr. Kohberger’s 
Federal and State Constitutional Rights of a fair trial, confrontation, and due process.  
 MOTION IN LIMINE #10 RE:  IMPROPER EXPERT  
OPINION TESTIMONY - MITTELMAN        Page 4 
  CONCLUSION 
A fair trial is mandated by Mr. Kohberger’s Federal and State Constitutional rights to due 
process, a fair trial, effective assistance of counsel, and confrontation of witnesses.  U.S. Const. 
amends. V, VI, and XIV; Idaho Const. art. I Sections 8 and 13. I mproper speculative expert 
testimony must be excluded.   
DATED this ___ 24____ day of February, 2025. 
          
      
        
      BY:   _____________________________ 
       BICKA  BARLOW  
       ATTORNEY  AT LAW  
 
  
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___24____ day of February, 2025 addressed to: 
 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov  
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov   
 
      
       
       
 
