OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 1 
  Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01 -24-31665 
 
 
OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S 
MOTION IN LIMINE RE: AT&T 
TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS  
 
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of record, and hereby 
respectfully objects to the State’s Motion in Limine to exclude reference to unproduced AT&T 
Timing Advance  Records  (TA).  Mr. Kohberger’s objection is grounded in his rights under the 
United States Constitution, 5th, 6th and 14th Amendments and the Idaho Constitution Article 1 
Section 13.   STATE OF IDAHO , 
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
3/17/2025 2:48 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkOBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 2  
  The State’s motion seeks to prevent Mr. Kohberger  from  confronting, through a full and 
fair cross examination, a portion of the case .  The State seeks Mr. Kohberger’s silence on records 
produced by AT&T, Timing Advance (TA) records.  The State’ s motion  informs the Court TA 
records  were not produced by AT&T Global Legal Demand Center until May of 2023.  Mr. 
Kohberger agrees with that claim, however that is only partial information.  The State is misleading 
the Court in its motion by what it leaves out.  What the State is not saying is that the TA Records 
existed at AT&T in November and December of 2022.  The  State  has to know this to be true 
because in April of 2024 the State produced the actual records  from AT&T  for cell  towers and 
individual TA records for two ( 2) of the four deceased and one for a person who had been a person 
of interest  at the beginning of the investigation  as well as over 3800 people on the cell t ower .  
These records were from  November of  2022 and  were produced in discovery to Mr. Kohberger in 
2024.  
It is accurate that AT&T Global Legal Demand Center (GLDC) did not produce  TA 
reports to Law Enforcement in 2022.  The TA  report s from AT&T GLDC were not available to 
State and Local Law Enforcement until June of 2023, however the existence of these reports in 
this case is direct evidence that these records could be and were provided to law enforcement by 
AT&T prior to  production through GLDC .  As such, Mr. Kohberger’s AT&T TA  report from 2022 
would not have been provided through AT&T’s GLDC.1 
AT&T had TA  Reports prior to their availability through GLDC.  The State , attempting to 
say the reports were not available until GLDC produced them , is nothing more than asking the 
Court for permission to  hide the State’s failure to disclose  Mr. Kohberger’s AT&T TA report .  
Depending on how far back the report goes it will  contain exculpatory evidence that will partially 
 
1 AT&T GLDC began storing the data to produce the TA  reports in May of 2023, but did not 
provide the actual TA  reports to State and Local Law Enforcement until June 15, 2023.   
 OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 3  
  corroborate Mr. Kohberger’s alibi.  Mr. Kohberger will provide evidence, testimony and argument 
in support of his claim that the State  misrepresents the  availability of TA  records .  
 
Background : 
Mr. Kohberger’s TA records are different than other records provided in discovery.  The 
records are location data that are accurate in determining the location of a cell phone.  TA  (TA) is 
a term used in the cellular network industry relating to a measurement of time.  It measures the 
time it takes for a radio frequency signal to travel between a mobile device and a base station in a 
cellular network. TA is required in cellular network s to assign a time slot to a mobile device 
allowing it to transmit data so that it doesn't interfere with other devices.  Given the signal is traveling at a known speed (the speed of light/  299,792 kilometers per second) it is possible to us e 
timing information to determine the distance of the mobile device from the base station.  T hese 
measurements can be very accurate.  When a mobile device is using multiple cell sites, it is possible to utilize trilateration to determine a very specific location , typicall y ranging in meters.  
Essentially, TA records provide a much greater detail of accuracy than regular cell site location information only providing cell site and cell sector information.  When analyzing a pattern of life associated with a mobile device, TA can provide accuracy in such detail it is possible to pinpoint precise travel routes, stagnation, and anomalies within a pattern of life. Law Enforcement commonly relies on TA records for this purpose.  The methodology and accuracy is supported through est ablished, published, and accepted scientific practices.  
AT&T wa s the last of the major providers in the United States to produce TA data for l aw 
enforcement.  The first TA reports AT&T provided to l aw enforcement w ere the result of a 
software program utilized by AT&T from a third party, Viavi Solutions.  Viavi Solutions offered a software solution known as AriesoGEO.  In using the AriesoGEO software, AT&T was able to 
create and produce TA records  for law enforcement , but due to the pricing of the software it was OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 4  
  at a great expense.  As a result, only certain law enforcement agencies were provided access to 
these reports, the FBI has been  the primary agency given access.  T he TA reports were not common 
nor were they created in the normal AT&T ecosystem ; thus, TA reports were not accessible to the 
GLDC personnel within AT&T.  The FBI utilized  a different legal compliance unit within AT&T 
to access these TA records.  That legal compliance unit is separate from GLDC .  When these 
reports were first made available to the FBI, it was draped in secrecy. As a result, there is little 
documentation to rely on  when dealing with early AT&T TA  reports made available to the FBI .     
AT&T developed a new system, outside of the AriesoGEO system , to produce these 
records at a fraction of the cost ; this cost reduction allowed AT&T to provide these records to s tate 
and local law enforcement.  As a result, GLDC was given access to TA reports in May of 2023 
and began providing them to s tate and l ocal law enforcement in June of 2023.  The distinction is 
that AT&T TA records were available to only select law enforcement , specifically the FBI,  well 
before this internal change.  
Timing Advance  Information and Records in the State’s Possession:  
Mr. Kohberger is aware of the fact AT&T GLDC did not produce TA  reports in 2022.  
There is no doubt any representative from AT&T GLDC will testify to this fact. Mr. Kohberger  
does not contest this claim.  The State is also aware of this, as they did not obtain the current  AT&T 
TA records in their possession through the AT&T GLDC.  They had to utilize the FBI who went 
through a different legal compliance unit within AT&T to obtain those records. 
At the onset of this investigation, Detective s with the Moscow Police Department began 
obtaining call detail records as part of the investigation.  In doing so, they heavily relied on assistance from Special Agent Nick Bal lance with FBI CAST.  This is first documented in emails 
exchanged on November 15, 2022.   
Detectives  Lawrence Mowery  and Brett Payne  were tasked with writing search warrants 
to AT&T for a number of different requests.  O n November 15, 2022,  Detective Mowery  requested OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 5  
  verbiage , via email,  from SA Ba llance in reference to AT&T records.  An email string that was 
produced by the State in discovery contains a very clear account of SA Bal lance’s knowledge of 
AT&T TA being available.  SA Ballance’s email to Det. Mowery states:  
  “Subject: Re: ATT Tower Dump.pdf  
Nelos became Location Database of Record or LocDBoR a little while back. List that and Timing Advance since both are applicable w them now. Nick Bal lance”  
In reviewing this email, there is no doubt the email is in reference to AT&T, as it i s 
referenced in the subject line.  Additionally, there is an attachment with the email chain that contains the words “Warrant ATT”.  
Det. Mowery then forwarded SA Bal lance’s email to Prosecutor Ashley Jennings.  
(Objection to State’s MIL: AT records Exhibit 1, email chain.)   Det. Mowery was informing 
Prosecutor Jennings of the availability of AT&T TA reports  and requesting it be added to the 
warrant.  In reviewing the AT&T Search Warrants that were produced over the next few days after 
this email chain, all of them contain specific verbiage requesting AT&T TA  reports, just as 
recommended  by SA Balance.   
While the above reference email chain is clear as to the existence, availability , and 
knowledge of availability to the State regarding  AT&T TA reports in November of 2022.   In July 
of 2024 Mr. Kohberger received from the  State AT&T T A Reports from 2022 in reference to this 
investigation.  These TA reports were not for his phone.   
The State turned over 3 s eparate AT&T TA reports.  All three reports contain AT&T TA  
data from November of 2022.  In the early phases of this investigation, l aw enforcement identified 
3 AT&T phones of interest , two (2) belong to deceased  and the third phone belonged  to a person 
of interest whom l aw enforcement was investigating as a suspect.  Det ective  Mowery authored an 
affidavit in support of a  search warrant to AT&T, issued on November 16, 2022, that demanded OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 6  
  the AT&T TA  records for these phones.  All three TA  reports were produced by AT&T and are 
currently in the State’s possession.   
The TA report the State disclosed on other phones is what Mr. Kohberger has sought 
relating to his own phone record.  He requested the report through discovery and during a motion 
to compel.  Mr. Kohberger  is aware, and will  provide testimony in support, that  the AT&T Timing 
Reports currently in the State’s possession were not provided to the State by AT&T GDLC.  The reports were produced through another compliance unit within AT&T through the FBI’s close relationship with AT&T.  
Mr. Kohberger posits that relying on GLDC stating they did not provide TA reports in 2022 
misses the issue at hand.  Throughout the discovery process the State has provided different explanations  about TA report availability but always claiming it was not in their possession.   The 
State obtained search warrants in December of 2022 where the State sought  AT&T TA reports for 
Mr. Kohberger from  November of 2022.  The search warrant for Mr. Kohberger’s phone data 
contains identical  verbiage  as was used requesti ng TA reports in warrants issued for other  AT&T 
phone s in November  of 2022.  The same process of serving the warrant was also followed, Moscow 
Police Department obtained the warrant, provided it to FBI SA Nick Bal lance, who then provided 
it to AT&T.  The exact same process which resulted in TA  reports being produced in November 
was repeated in December. (Objection to State’s MIL: TA Records, Exhibit 2, Search Warrants AT&T.)   The second AT&T warrant contained a document titled AT&T Mobility Carrier Request 
Form instructing AT&T to provide TA records for the past 7 days as  available. (Objection to 
State’s MIL:  TA Records, Exhibit 3, AT&T M obility Car rier Request Form .) 
Mr. Kohberger has sought TA  records related to his own phone and litigated the issue.  
During the course of litigation,  the lead detective testified he had seen Mr. Kohberger’s timing 
advance records .  Mr. Kohberger has documents produced with search warrants that instruct 
AT&T to provide Timing Advance Data.  Discovery documents contain emails about including OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: AT&T TIMING ADVANCE RECORDS        Page 7  
  that request in search warrants because it was available.  Mr. Kohberger provides those documents 
as exhibits.   
CONCLUSION 
Mr. Kohberger has a right to confront evidence in the case against him. His Constitutional 
protections mean he must be afforded a full and fair opportunity to cross examine state’s witnesses.  
AT&T TA reports are available; the State has produced reports that were prepared before GLDC produced them for law enforcement. TA reports relating to him exist, yet the State has not produced 
them.  The State now seeks to limit his cross examination  and their lack of disclosure by hiding 
behind half-truths .  Mr. Kohberger must be allowed to explore the State withholding the evidence.   
DATED this ___ 17____ day of March , 2025.  
 
                
       _____________________________ 
      ANNE C. TAYLOR  
      ANNE TAYLOR LAW, PLLC  
 
 
   
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___17____ day of March , 2025 addressed to:  
 Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net 
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
        
       
 
