DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 1 Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01-24-31665 
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE 
TO ALLOW WITNESS TESTIMONY AT 
APRIL 9, 2025 HEARING  
 
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorney s of record , and hereby 
moves the Court  for leave to allow the defense to call the following witnesses to testify at the 
Motions in Limine hearing scheduled for April 9-10, 2025.  This request is based in the United 
States Constitution through the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments and the Idaho Constitution STATE OF IDAHO,  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER, 
 
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
3/17/2025 2:48 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkDEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 2 Article I Section 13.  Mr. Kohberger faces the Death Penalty and must raise every possible issue 
and have a full record of such. 
Attorneys representing a person facing capital punishment have a  heightened 
responsibility because of the potential consequences.  Mr. Kohberger has a right to effective assistance of counsel.  As such counsel is guided by the American Bar Association (ABA) Guidelines in capital cases.   Given these obligation, pre -trial motions practice differs 
significantly from non- capital cases. Capital cases routinely involve the litigation of  several 
dozen, and often hundreds, of pre -trial motions . Consistent with the constitutionally required 
heightened need for reliability, the obligations of counsel, and the ABA Guidelines, Mr. 
Kohberger requests counsel be permitted to present evidence in support of motions . Such a 
practice is necessary to ensure that all appellate issues are preserved to the maximum extent 
possible and that Mr. Kohberger’s S tate and Federal Constitutional rights are effectuated and 
protected.  In addition, because expert testimony is necessary to inform the finder of fact, who at 
this stage in the Court, it is most efficient to address these matters now rather than in the middle of trial.  
Bryan Kohberger will support some of his motions with affidavit but seeks leave of the 
court to call two witnesses.  T he two witnesses that Mr. Kohberger seeks to present are experts 
whose testimony will involve complex technical questions that cannot be adequately addressed by affidavit and argument.  No affidavit can encompass all possible questions and areas of inquiry given the complex and technical nature of the issues before the Court. The presence of live witnesses will allow any questions that will certainly arise for the Court to be addressed directly and in a timely manner.  The witnesses ’ testimony is complex, the intricacies of which 
are necessary for Mr. Kohberger’s defense and the protection of his rights guaranteed by the United States and State of Idaho Constitutions. DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 3 WITNESS SY RAY 
Sy Ray will  provide testimony regarding his expertise with cell tower data and with 
AT&T records.    His testimony encompasses Mr. Kohberger’s Motion in Limine to exclude 
experts, rebuttal of State’s  Motions  in Limine RE:  AT&T Timing Advance  Data, Alibi and Self 
Authentication  of documents.   
In Support of Motion to Exclude Expert Special Agent Ballance  
Mr. Kohberger has filed a motion to exclude expert Special Agent Ballance because the 
State did not file a proper expert disclosure.  The State has since filed additional information in its rebuttal to Defense experts Sy Ray and Tom Slovinsky, and even later, the State filed, not an 
expert opinion, but a more full description of the areas of testimony.   Mr. Kohberger’s position 
is that this disclosure is late , incomplete , and inconsistent with previous disclosures.   
  The State has relied on Special Agent Ballance to track the movements of Bryan 
Kohberger’s cellular device.  The reliance has been averred to in every affidavit for records 
relating to Mr. Kohberger as well as the supporting his arrest.  The State claimed that Mr. 
Kohberger’s phone stopped reporting to the network at 2:47 am on November 13, 2022.  The 
State has produced records from AT&T and drive test data relating to their anticipated expert 
testimony, but no actual report was produced.  Instead, the State has produced PowerPoint pages.  
These pages depict a lack analysis and a false picture.  The State has conceded, contrary to their 
probable cause affidavits, that the phone continued to report to the network for an additional 
seven minutes, but claim it is of no significance  
The State relies on SA Ballance as its expert for cell site location information.  SA 
Ballance was heavily involved in the warrant process for records for Mr. Kohberger’s phone and 
conducting an analysis on the same.  SA Ballance reviewed a variety of records and did drive DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 4 testing to collect data. Some  maps were produced.  The State has not explained how those were 
produced and SA Ballance has not done so through police report or expert analysis.  He has 
produced Power  Point depictions  that lack explanation.   
Defense expert, Sy Ray analyzed the handoffs during the 7 minutes , that the State 
previously claimed the phone was off, and found that the State’s claims about Mr. Kohberger ’s 
direction of movement is false.  When a phone is utilizing services of several different towers 
experts triangulate the interaction between the cell tower(s) and cell phone; they can determine the phone location. The State’s reliance on a white Elantra in WSU videos is not supported by the cellular tower handoff data.  Understanding what these seven minutes of handoffs mean is 
best explained in testimony of expert Sy Ray.  Once the workings of cell phones with towers and 
hand- offs to determine travel paths is understood the impact of what t he State has failed to 
disclose is better understood.  The State has hidden exculpatory evidence.  
In Rebuttal of State’s Motion RE:  AT&T Timing Advance Data  
Sy Ray has a background with AT&T records and understands records that exist and how 
they are distributed.  He will provide testimony about AT&T Timing Advance records.  He will 
testify that Timing Advance Records existed through ATT prior to June 2023.  He will testify about what the records are and what they show.  He has personally seen these records  used in 
other cases  prior to June 2023.  In June of 2023 Timing Advance Records were produced 
through GLDC for regular law enforcement.  Prior to that time the FBI had means to receive Timing Advance Reports.  Sy Ray will testify that Timing Advance Records exist in Mr. Kohberger’s case, specifically, the State has produced timing advance records through the cell tower reports on over 3800 people and individual records for two of the deceased and one person of interest.   The State has not produced these records for Mr. Kohberger.  
 DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 5 In Rebuttal of State’s Motion RE:  Alibi  
Mr. Kohberger relies on partial corroboration for his alibi that he was driving alone West 
and South of Moscow on 11/13/22.  Partial corroboration, disclosed as required, is in the form of 
AT&T records and mapping the same.  The specific focus i s on cellular device interaction 
between cell towers and drive testing data during the last seven minutes before the phone stopped reporting to the network.   For the first time, on March 3, 2025 the S tate disclosed 
Special Agent Balance mapped handoffs for the last seven minutes.  Mr. Ray will provide 
testimony that mapping of those handoffs partially corroborate Mr. Kohberger’s alibi and are exculpatory.   
In Rebuttal of State’s Motion RE:  self - authenticating documents  
 The State has listed AT&T records as part of its request for admission by certification.  
Mr. Ray will testify about the content of this request.  
WITNESS DAVID HOWELL  
In Support of Motion to Exclude Experts AND Motion to Exclude Amazon Click history  
David Howell is an expert in the branding industry to include Amazon records , data 
retention, algorithm driven recommendation systems, cross platform tracking, user accounts and, Buy Box system, clickstream tracking systems and the need for complete data for informed opinions .  The State has disclosed two potential witnesses  as experts on Amazon records  but did 
not disclose opinion of either  witness.  Forensic analysis  of amazon records are complicated. The 
Defense seeks to exclude and opposes testimony. Many records requested in warrants have not been produced to the defense, beyond bare purchase histor y that fails to consider critical analysis 
as listed above .   Mr. Howell’s testimony relates to two motions –  motion to exclude experts 
based on lack of disclosure and motion to exclude amazon click records.  Mr. Howell testimony DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 6 is necessary to present the full scope of both motions.  Specifically, the testimony will show that 
without the disclosure of expert opinions the defense has no ability to prepare to confront the undisclosed testimony. This creates a  danger of allowing vague experts and topics  to present 
either misleading or false testimony.  Without Mr. Howell’s  testimony Mr. Kohberger cannot 
effectively describe how Amazon works. This testimony includes  Amazon’ s use of Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) and how it is used to increase sales, he will explain the how machine learning works and impacts what has been described as clicks.  He will explain how “clicks” work and what they mean and what they do not mean.   Mr. Howell will discuss how algorithms work and 
the influence of advertisers.  Amazon “searches” and “clicks” are not the same as searching in google. Testimony, rather than affidavit is necessary because this is a technical and specific area.  Mr. Kohberger has moved for exclusion of expert testimony as well as all Amazon history .   
For the first time, on March 14, 2025 the State disclosed opinions and testimony it seeks 
to elicit through its experts Shane Cox and Federal Agent Michael Douglass related to Amazon 
records.  Mr  .Howell will testify to the significance of this late disclosure  and the implications to 
being able to fully confront these expert opinions.  
Testimony is necessary to develop and explain the scope and context of this information 
and to best protect  Mr. Kohberger’s Constitutional R ights.    
DATED this ___ 17____ day of March , 2025.  
 
                
       _____________________________ 
      ANNE C. TAYLOR  
      ANNE TAYLOR LAW, PLLC  
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE  TO ALLOW  
WITNESS TESIMONY AT APRIL 9, 2025  HEARING  Page 7  
  
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___17____ day of March , 2025 addressed to:  
 Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net 
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
        
        
 
