 
 
STATE’S REPLY TO DEFENDANT’S OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS AND MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT  1 
 LATAH COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S OFFICE   
WILLIAM  W. THOMPSON, JR., ISB No . 2613 
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY 
ASHLEY S. JENNINGS, ISB No. 8491 
SENIOR DEPUTY PROSECUTOR  
Latah County Courthouse 
522 S. Adams Street, Ste. 211 
Moscow, ID 83843 
Phone: (208) 883-2246 
paservice@latah countyid.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT  OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
 
STATE OF IDAHO,  Case No. CR 01-24-31665  
                        Plaintiff,   
  
STATE’S REPLY TO  
V. DEFENDANT’S OBJECTION TO 
STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE 
RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF 
DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS 
AND MEMORANDUM IN 
SUPPORT    
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER , 
                         Defendant.  
 
 
 COMES NOW the State of Idaho, by and through the Latah County Prosecuting 
Attorney, and replies to the March 17, 2025 “Defendant’s Objection to State’s Motion in Limine 
RE: Admissibility of Demonstrative Exhibits and Memorandum in Support.” 
 At the outset,  it is necessary for the State to clarify the history between the parties on the 
issue of a 3D model. I t is true that the State’s initial plan was to ask for a “to -scale” 3D model of 
the 1122 King Road residence. As part of that, and at least partially in response to Ms. Taylor’s Electronically Filed
3/24/2025 2:32 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy Clerk 
 
STATE’S REPLY TO DEFENDANT’S OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS AND MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT  2 
 October, 2023 request for additional information (see p. 2, 2nd paragraph of Defendant’s 
Objection), the State initiated inquiries for underlying supportive data for its own review and to 
share with the defense. Eventually, the Sta te realized that there was not any need for a “to -scale” 
model and ultimately settled on proposing a “not -to-scale” 3D model as a 
demonstrative/illustrative exhibit.  
 While the emails the Defendant attached to his objection make reference to a “scale – 3D 
model,” (Defendant’s Exhibit 2) the Defendant neglected to include the balance of the email 
thread which include s emails between Ms. Taylor and Ms. Jennings on February 4, 2025, and 
emails between the undersigned and Ms. Taylor from February 28 and March 4 where the State advised the Defendant that the State had finally received supplemental information regarding the 3D model (attached to the email) and  that the State was electing to use a 3D model “as a 
demonstrative exhibit (for any witness who might talk about the residence) – not an actual scale 
model.” See the full email thread attached hereto as State’s Exhibit S -2. (Exhibit S -1 was 
attached to the State’s original Motion in Limine dated February 21, 2025). Ms. Taylor’s 
response to the Stat e’s inquiry regarding any concerns the Defendant had about a demonstrative 
exhibit (not to scale) is merely that she continues with “the same objections as we discussed, and as I expressed in email exchanges with Ashley (Ms. Jennings).” T he Defendant’s “same 
objections” are reflected in Ms. Taylor’s February 4, 2025, email – specifically: “The issue I 
have is in the building of a to  scale model  (emphasis added)  . . .”  
 The Defendant now argues the same objections to a “ not-to-scale” model without 
recognizin g the difference in the standards  for demonstrative evidence.  
 As the State outlined in its Motion in Limine dated February 21, 2025,  
 
STATE’S REPLY TO DEFENDANT’S OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS AND MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT  3 
 demonstrative/illustrative exhibits are proper ly admissible when the exhibit supplements the 
testimony of witnesses or assists the jury in obtaining a better understanding of the facts and 
issues (State’s Motion in Limine  at page 2 citing to Masters v. Dewey, 109 Idaho 576 (Ct. App. 
(1985) ). Demonstrative exhibits do not have to be precisely accurate ( Id.). 
 Professor Lewis, in his Idaho Trial Handbook (2d Ed.) at Section 22:7 cites to Ma sters 
and other caselaw referred to by the State in its Motion in Limine. Professor Lewis adopts the above from Master s and continues :  
 Exhibits are inadmissible for demonstrative purposes when they do not illustrate or 
make clear er some issue in the case or where they are of such character to prejudice 
the jury. The appropriate test is an Idaho R. Evid. 403 balancing a probative value against the dangers of unfair prejudice, distraction, confusion of the issues and waste of time. (Citation to Masters).  
  A diagram offered for illustrative purposes needs only to be relevant to illustrate a witnesses testimony; it does no t have to be shown to be precisely accurate or 
consistent with the testimony of other witnesses. (Citing to State v. Raudebaugh, 
124 Idaho 758 (1993); and also State v. Ehrlick , 158 Idaho 900 (2015) ).  
 Id. 
  The State respectfully submits that a not- to-scale illustrative model is no different 
than a diagram or a hand- drawn sketch or a floor plan (see Exhibits 5- 8 presented to the 
Grand Jury in this case).  
 The State recognizes that it will need to establish a  foundation that the 3D model 
fairly depicts or represents the floor plan of 1122 King Road on November 13, 2022, and 
that the use of the model will be helpful to witnesses in explaining their testimony, and to the jury in understanding the evidence.  
   
 
STATE’S REPLY TO DEFENDANT’S OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS AND MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT  4 
 
 Based on the above the State asks that the Court issue an order allowing the use of 
a not -to-scale 3D model of the 1122 King Road residence in order to aid witnesses in their 
testimony and aid the jury in understanding the evidence provided, of course, that  the 
State’s lays adequate foundation for said exhibit.  
 RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED this  24th day of March  2025.  
   
 
             
       William W. Thompson, Jr.   
       Prosecuting Attorney  
   
 
STATE’S REPLY TO DEFENDANT’S OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE  
RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS AND MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT  5 
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
 
I hereby certify that true and correct copies of the  STATE’S REPLY TO  DEFENDANT’S 
OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION IN LIMINE RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF 
DEMONSTRATIVE EXHIBITS AND MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT  were served on the 
following in the manner indicated below:  
Anne  Taylor  
Attorney at Law  
PO Box 2347 
Coeur D Alene, ID 83816  
 ☐  Mailed  
☒  E -filed & Served / E -mailed  
☐  Faxed  
☐  Hand Delivered  
 
 Dated this  24th day of March 2025.  
 
 
__________________________________________ 
 
 Bill Thompson • 
From: 
Sent: Anne Taylor < > 
Tuesday, March 4, 2025 1 :30 PM 
To: Bill Thompson; Ashley Jennings 
Cc: Jen Jenquine; Elisa Massoth; Doris Lunceford; bickabarlow  
Subject: RE: Courtroom Model Exhibit • 
![[Warning: ~~E)rnal Email] -_ 
Hi Bill, 
I have had an opportunity to review your email and the file attached. I continue with the same objections as we 
discussed, and as I expressed in email exchanges with Ashley. The additional discovery and proposed use do not 
alleviate my concerns. I did see your Motion in Li mine and plan to respond. 
Thanks, 
Anne 
From: Bill Thompson > 
Sent: Friday, February 28, 2025 11:49 AM 
To: Anne Taylor  Ashley Jennings > 
Cc: Jen Jenquine >; Elisa Massoth < > 
Subject: RE: Courtroom Model Exhibit 
Hi Anne, 
This week we received some supplemental information from the FBI regarding the 3D model and it is being added to 
discovery- courtesy copy attached. As Ashley and I visited with you last week, we only want to use this as a 
demonstrative exhibit (for any witness who might talk about the residence) - not an actual scale model. You seemed 
reluctant so we're wondering what your concerns are and how we might try to address them. 
Thanks, 
Bill 
William W. Thompson, Jr. 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney 
522 S. Adams St., Ste. 211 
Moscow, ID 83843 
208-883-2246 
 
This message is confidential and may be legally privileged. Unless you are the intended recipient, you may not use, copy, or 
disclose this message or any information herein. If you have received this message in error, please immediately delete it and 
any attachments, and notify us at pa@latahcountyid.gov or by calling 208-883-2246. This address is also not valid for service 
of legal notices or process of any type. Any such notices or process that may lawfully be made by email should be addressed 
to paservice@latahcountyid.gov. Thank you. 
From: Anne Taylor  
Sent: Tuesday, February 4, 2025 8:58 AM 
1 
To: Ashley Jennings  
Cc: Bill Thompson Jen Jenquine ; Elisa Massoth 
> 
Subject: RE: Courtroom Model Exhibit 
I ![Warning: External Email]_ 
Hi Ashley-
The~~~6'1e~§ifffth~•i'~@ir;ig.it©@o:sGal~l~his relies on expertise. I need to know who is doing it, their 
qualifications, the data they rely on and what programs they use to construct the model. I need this information 
so I can have our expert help me understand the model and make a decision. This was something we requested 
back in the fall/winter of 2023 when we learned of this. I don't think we have the reports, photographs or 
measurements taken to support the construction of the dollhouse. I don't know who is constructing it or their 
qualifications. 
I appreciate you explaining why you want to use it and I also want us to resolve as many issues between ourselves 
as we reasonably can. Will you provide us with the background information now so I can work with our expert to 
understand how this model is being constructed? I cannot stipulate to something I do not yet understand. 
Thanks, 
Anne 
From: Ashley Jennings < > 
Sent: Tuesday, February 4, 2025 8:41 AM 
To: Anne Taylor  
Cc: Bill Thompson  
Subject: RE: Courtroom Model Exhibit 
Anne, 
The physical model has not been completed. All that we have at this point is the drawing which we were just 
provided (and you now have). Our hope is to have either your agreement or a court order before expending the 
time and resources to do the actual construction. I note the exhibit list is due on April 21, 2025, with copies to 
be exchanged at that point. 
I should also add that very little details will be demonstrated within the house. My understanding is only walls 
and doors will be present (no placement of bodies, etc.) This model is to help the jury in understanding the 
layout of the house (which, as you know, is odd). • 
This model could be used for solely demonstrative purposes. However, our thoughts are that it would be 
beneficial for the jury to have context for the layout while deliberating which means we would need to admit as 
an exhibit. 
I was hopeful that we could proactively take care of some of the more routine and equally beneficial items such 
as this as they come up. 
Ashley 
2 
Ashley Jennings 
Latah County Prosecutor's Office 
Senior Deputy Prosecutor 
Phone: 208.883.2246 
Email: v 
522 South Adams St., Room 211 
Moscow, ID 83843 
Protecting Everyone's Rights 
This message is confidential and may be legally privileged. Unless you are the intended recipient, you may not use, 
copy or disclose this message or any information herein. If you have received this message in error, please 
immediately delete it and any attachments, and notify pa@latahcountyid.gov or call 208.883.2246. This address is 
not valid for service of legal process of any type. Any such notices or process that may lawfully be made should be 
addressed to paservice@latahcountyid.gov. Thank you. 
From: Anne Taylor <  
Sent: Monday, February 3, 2025 1:31 PM 
To: Ashley Jennings <a  
Subject: RE: Courtroom Model Exhibit 
!([Warning: E><1ernal Email]-_ 
Hi Ashley 
I am surprised to see this email. I did not see this 3-D model drawing in discovery nor did I see it in expert 
disclosures. I need a lot more information and I need to see this in person, likely with an expert. I cannot stipulate, 
especially without full discovery and expert opinion. Please provide all materials as well as when and where the 
model is available for our viewing. 
Thanks, 
Anne 
From: Ashley Jennings < > 
Sent: Monday, February 3, 2025 1:22 PM 
To: Anne Taylor <a  
Subject: Courtroom Model Exhibit 
Anne, 
We would like to use a to scale 3-D model of the residence at trial. We anticipate this will be on wheels and 
each of the residence's floors will detach. I have included a picture of the model. Would you stipulate to the 
entry of this model? We intend to file a motion with the Court for its use. 
Let me know. 
Thanks, 
Ashley 
3 
Ashley Jennings 
Latah County Prosecutor's Office 
Senior Deputy Prosecutor 
Phone: 208.883.2246 
Email:  
522 South Adams St., Room 211 
Moscow, ID 83843 
Protecting Everyone's Rights 
This message is confidential and may be legally privileged. Unless you are the intended recipient, you may not use, 
copy or disclose this message or any information herein. If you have received this message in error, please . 
immediately delete it and any attachments, and notify pa@latahcountyid.gov or call 208.883.2246. This address is 
not valid for service of legal process of any type. Any such notices or process that may lawfully be made should be 
addressed to paservice@latahcountyid.gov. Thank you. 
This message is confidential and may be legally privileged. Unless you are the intended recipient, you 
may not use, copy or disclose this message or any information herein. If you have received this message 
in error, please immediately delete it and any attachments, and notify the sender. 
This message is confidential and may be legally privileged. Unless you are the intended recipient, you 
may not use, copy or disclose this message or any information herein. If you have received this message 
in error, please immediately delete it and any attachments, and notify the sender. 
This message is confidential and may be legally privileged. Unless you are the intended recipient, you 
may not use, copy or disclose this message or any information herein. If you have received this message 
in error, please immediately delete it and any attachments, and notify the sender. 
4 
