REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 1 Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347,  
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611  
iCourt E mail: info@annetaylorlaw.com  
 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho  83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208) 642-3799 
 
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110  
 
Assigned Attorneys: 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar  Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender , Bar  Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01 -24-31665 
 
 
REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE 
DEATH PENALTY  
 
RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER  
 
 
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of record, and hereby  
replies to the State’s Response to Defendant’s Motion to Strike Death Penalty Re: Autism 
Spectrum Disorder, filed on March 17 , 2025. Mr. Kohberger relies on his right to be free from STATE OF IDAHO  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
3/24/2025 5:56 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkREPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 2  cruel and unusual punishment, his right to due process, his right to a fair trial, his right to 
counsel, his right to present a defense, his right to a reliable sentencing determination, and other rights safeguarded by the Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution, and Article I, Sections 1, 2, 6, 7, and 13 of the Idaho State Constitution.  
Mr. Kohberger incorporates  herein  Defendant’s Response to State’s Motion in Limine 
Re: Neuropsychological and Psychiatric Evidence, filed March 17, 2025. That Response provides  neuroimaging showing th at ASD has both physical and biological  factors .  
ARGUMENT  
The Atkins standard  for intellectual disability is much more than low IQ.  Atkins v. 
Virginia , 536 U.S. 304 (2002) . Mr. Kohberger fits the criteria set forth in Atkins  in the following 
ways:  impairment in communication, reasoning, social skills, and understanding the reactions of 
others . His deficits developed at an early age and continue to the present  day; ASD is not 
something one outgrows . Very early in his education he was treated as  a child with special needs , 
evaluat ed psychologically, and provided wit h instructional support . He was observed as 
“rocking” in the classroom , inattentive,  and he had poor fine motor skills . He received reading 
support, speech therapy, reminders to stay on tasks, more time for homework, and organizational  
support . He lack ed social -emotional  reciprocity  and had few friends, he did not understand 
nonverbal communicative behaviors used for social interaction, and  had an inability to devel op, 
maintain, and understand relationships . The State seeks death  when  Mr. Kohberger is a per son 
with an intellectual and  neurodivergent  physical disability . Like people with intellectual 
disabilities, Mr. Kohberger ’s adaptive functioning is  impair ed. He lacks the skills to function in 
the real wor ld of daily living , self-care, socialization,  and communication. People with an IQ 
above 70, can still qualify as  intellectually  disabled due to diminished adaptive function. Hall v. REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 3  Florida, 572 U.S. 701 (2014). The DSM clearly states that intelligence is not a hedge against 
severe deficits in social functioning. “Even those with average or high intelligence have an 
uneven profile of abilities. The gap between intellectual and adaptive functional skills is often large.” DSM -5, p. 55.  
 The State is misguided in its argument that Mr. Kohberger has “the leas t severe form of 
ASD” in support of its position that his disability is not Atkins  or Roper  qualifying. In United States 
v. Huseth , 18-CR-20027, Doc. 67  (D. Kan. 2018) the court  dispelled the misconception among lay 
people that “high functioning” or “mild” autism, terms used by researchers to denote individuals with average intelligence and communication skills, does not result in severe impairments. The court  specifically rejected the contention that the defendant’s ASD is “mild” because he has a high 
IQ, had attended college, and could drive a car. Huseth had a Full -Scale IQ of 123, “[b]ut despite his 
high IQ,” the court stated, “Huseth is severely impaired and, in many areas, functions at the level of an 8-year-old.” The court considered evidence that demonstrated that the defendant struggled with 
daily living skills and socialization, despite his high intelligence.  
1 “Intelligence is not a hedge 
against severe impairment of adaptive functional ability,” the court stated . Another example of the 
inappropriate reliance of a court on the term “mild” is from the Fourth Circuit. In United States v. 
Zuk, 874 F.3d 398 (4th Cir. 2017) , the trial court’s sentence was overturned on appeal and 
remanded, largely because of Mr. Zuk's autism being described in the record as "mild autism," and the correlative failure to do adaptive testing which would have  illustrated the true degree to 
which Mr. Zuk was impaired in relevant ways. The State relies on cases that do not address the 
facts in this case. It  cites, U.S. v. Roof , 10 F.4
th 314, 380 (4th 2021), which does not stand for the 
proposition that ASD is not included as falling under Atkins . In Roof , the c ourt focused only on 
 
1 See also  Roper v. Simmons , 543 U.S. 551 (2005)  (drawing the line at age 18 is subject to objections), ASD impacts 
the functional age of adults who suffer from the disorder. Often times the functional age is that of a juvenile. When 
that is the case, the protections of Roper to be death ineligible  arguably apply.  REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 4  IQ as there was no full development of an intellectual disability. The State’s reliance on Dunlap 
and Pizzuto  are equally misplaced, as the issues related to mental disability wer e different. In 
Pizzuto , the court hinged its decision on a lack of data before age 18 and there was no claim of 
ASD.  Pizzuto v. State , 146 Idaho 720,728 -29 (2008) . In Dunlap, the argument focuse d on mental 
illness and ASD was  not a claim. State v. Dunlap, 155 Idaho 345,380 (2013). 
Atkins  stated three reasons why, in that case, Capital Punishment was inappropriate : 
lesser  culpability does not merit death, the death penalty does not act as a deterrent for the 
intellectually disable d, and impairments of the intellectually disabled can jeopardize the fairness 
of their proceedings . These same factors apply in Mr. Kohberger’s case.  
Lesser culpability - Mr. Kohberger has all times asserted his innocence . Should he be 
convicted of this crime, his neurological, physical disorder may very well be the reason the jury misjudges him . The public sentiment of prejudice against him and pre -judgment of guilt resulted 
in a change of venue . Media coverage continues to be negative with an overall continued 
narrative claiming  his guilt.  The reality is that he is in fact, in a category of persons who are less 
culpable . It is widely recognized that aut ism does affect culpability , moral reasoning, and the  
ability to foresee consequences of social interaction and processes . People with ASD face a 
childhood of victimization  by their typically developing peers because they are misunderstood . 
Inevitably , misunderstanding is  going to reprise itself in the courtroom setting to the great 
disadvantage of the autistic accused facing typically developed jurors.  
In USA v. Shore , 17-cr-502, Doc. 50 (E.D. Pa. July 7, 2020) District Court Judge 
Timothy J. Savage stated:
 
Autism is a (sic) neuro -developmental disability involving the brain. It is 
characterized by the presence of narrow, repetitive behavior and differences and 
difficulties in social interaction, communication, and adjusting to change. A person suffering from ASD is neurologically impaired in his ability to appreciate REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 5  the unacceptability of his conduct or to intuit why this conduct is unacceptable. 
Because of his difficulty observing social norms, an ASD individual may engage in socially disapproved or unacceptable behavior, with no consciousness of wrongdoing or a real sense of how his behavior is viewed by others . . .. But, the same factors bearing on the juvenile’s mental development and appreciation of his 
wrongdoing are present in the case of a defendant with ASD. . .. Shore, like others 
with ASD, shares the same characteristics with juveniles whom the Supreme 
Court has found are “constitutionally different from adults for purposes of sentencing.” Miller v. Alabama, 567 U.S. 460, 471 (2012). These include immaturity, impulsivity, and failure to appreciate the risks and consequences of their actions. The same analysis applies here.  
 USA v. Shore , Doc. 50, Memorandum Opinion, p. 7. 
 
Death penalty as deterrent - it is well know n that the death penalty is no deterrent at all . 
That is the reason that many states have eliminated it. It is not a deterrent for anyone.
2    
Moreover, t he State argues that “t he death penalty does not act as a deterrent for the 
intellectually disabled because they cannot process the possibility of execution as a penalty,” and 
declares that this does not apply in the case of autism . To the contrary, autism is often 
conceptualized as an executive functioning disorder.3  Part of executive functioning is the ability 
to foresee consequences and adjusting behavior to optimize one’s course of action to obtain beneficial and avoid negative consequences. Mr. Kohberger suffers from executive function 
deficiencies such as disorganization and inability to plan ahead.  
Impairment of intellectually disabled: Mr. Kohberger does have a “diminished ability to 
understand and process information, to learn from experience, to engage in logical reasoning or to control impulses.”  As explained in the expert reports, he has poor working memory, engages 
 
2 See https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/research -halting -the-use-of-the-death -penalty -did-not-result -in-an-increase- in-
homicide -rates  (last visited March 24, 2025) . 
3 Volkmar , et al, An Introduction to Autism and the Autism Spectrum, Ch. 1  i n: Volkmar, F.R., Loftin, R., 
Westphal, A., Woodbury -Smith, M. (eds) Handbook of Autism Spectrum Disorder and the Law. Springer, Cham.  
(2021).  
 REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 6  in repetitive behaviors , and poor impulse control. H is neurological diverge nce is supported in 
neuro imaging.  
Persons with ASD make poor witnesses . Research shows that  if the jury is not informed  
of the defendant  diagnosis  of ASD,  the impact  of a negative  impressions of demeanor  may have a 
detrimental implication  for defendants  with ASD.  Perlin  & Cucolo4 emphasize the need  for 
protections  in these areas  because the operation of autistic traits  
makes it much more difficult for individuals with ASD in the criminal justice 
system, especially  when their fate is to be decided by jurors who may either have 
no familiarity  with autism or whose "familiarity" is based  on a television  
stereotype,  and who regularly consider  demeanor  evidence (and their idiosyncratic  
perceptions  of how "demeanor" can be translated into remorse, empathy, motive 
and more in evaluating a witness's credibility). 
 
Mr. Kohberger’s ASD makes a fair and just trial  a challenge.  The State argues news 
coverage is not informative on this topic . The State benefits from the biased news media . Public 
sentiment is that Mr. K ohberger’s physical presentation makes him look guilty, through no fault 
of his own. His flat affect, intense gaze, awkward body posture, holding still  in the court room , 
inability to react and process what is happening in the court room , and inability to show emotion 
could cause enough juror bias to convict him . Without a doubt, his ability to testify in trial and 
the decision to testify will be nearly impossible for Mr. Kohberger. He has no ability to perceive 
what it will feel like and whether  he should in fact testify. His inability to read the room, 
understand the threat that cross examination will present, or explain himself in socially 
acceptable way without  prosody of speech, presents  insurmountable hurdles  for him . The State 
 
4 Perlin, Michael L. and Cucolo, Heather, ‘Something’s Happening Here/But You Don’t Know What It  Is’: 
How Jurors  (Mis)Construe  Autism  in the Criminal Trial Process,  82 UNIV PITTSBURGH  LAW REVIEW 
586 (2021), available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664705 or 
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664705.  
 REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 7  picked fragments of sentences in the expert report s to support its position that Mr. Kohberger 
does not present with ASD challenges . In doing so, t he State could not be more wrong in 
comparing Mr. Kohberger’s ability to testify in a courtroom to the average person. He suffers  
from multiple vulnerabilities  impacting , first , deciding  whether or not to testify, and then 
competently testifying, with no ability to eliminate the physical conditions that exist  within his 
body due to his neurodivergence. He fits  exactly  the Atkins  “typical  poor witness .”   
The failure of the police or a court to consider the extent to which the appearance of the 
accused is accounted for by his autism has resulted in reversals, on pure evidentiary sufficiency 
grounds. See State v. Suber , 2008 WL 942622 (Minn.2008) (failure to rule out ASD as the cause 
of indicia of impairment in operating motor vehicle, as opposed to marijuana); United States v. 
Cottrell, 333 F. App'x 213 (9th Cir. 2009)  (reversal for failure to consider evidence of 
Asperger’s condition in determining the spec ific intent required for conviction). 
Finally, the State argues that Mr. Kohberger  is competent and for that reason, Atkins  does 
not apply. C ompetence is constantly being assessed and the reason Dr. Ryan’s report refers  to the 
issue is because his ASD impacts his ability to assist counsel and understand the proceedings he faces . He has an inability  to assist  with mitigation evidence and understand the magnitude of his 
case. By way of example, when he was arrested in his home, with a full swat team, doors broken, 
and parents zip tied , he made sm all talk with the detective in the back of the car  during the ride 
to the police station . He asked the officer  about his education and suggested that they get coffee 
at a later date. He did not perceive the profoundly serious  nature of the moment and exhibited no 
perception of what was happening. While competency has not been raised in this case, at this 
time, Mr. Kohber ger’s team and assisting experts  are constantly analyzing  this issue.  
   REPLY TO STATE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO  
STRIKE DEATH PENALTY RE: AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER    Page 8  
CONCLUSION 
 For all the reasons addressed above and in Mr. Kohberger’s initial brief, the death penalty 
must be struck as a possible penalty in this case. The Court has notified the parties that fifteen 
(15) minutes will be allowed on this motion . This is a matter that requires an evidentiary hearing 
with expert testimony. Mr. Kohberger will continue to pursue this legal issue throughout trial if 
this motion is denied. Given his disability , a jury should never be allowed to consider putting 
him to death.  
DATED this 24th day of March , 2025.   
 
 
 _________________________ 
       ELISA G. MASSOTH 
       ELISA G. MASSOTH, PLLC ATTORNEY  
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___24____ day of March , 2025, addressed to:  
 
 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: emassoth@kmrs.net   
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov  
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net   
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
        
      
 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,    
    Plaintiff,      v.     ERIK M. HUSETH,    
    Defendant.    
        Case No. 18-20027-JAR 
 
MEMORANDUM AND ORDER ON SENTENCING 
 On August 27, 2018, Defendant Erik Huseth pl ed guilty to Count 3 of a three-count 
Information, charging him with possession of child pornography, in violation of 18 U.S.C.  
§ 2252(a)(4)(B).  The charges ste mmed from the FBI’s search and se izure of Huseth’s computer 
in 2014, which contained child pornography images a nd videos.  This matter is now before the 
Court on Huseth’s Sentencing Memorandum and Motion for Downward Departure or Variance 
(Doc. 31).   Neither party objects to the Sentencing Gu idelines calculations in the Presentence 
Investigation Report.  The calcula tions are: a base offense leve l of 18, a two-level enhancement 
for knowingly engaging in distri bution via the use of peer-to- peer software, a two-level 
enhancement for use of a computer, a two- level enhancement fo r materials involving 
prepubescent minors, a f our-level enhancement fo r materials depicting th e sexual exploitation of 
infants or toddlers, a five-level enhancement for possessing more than 600 images, and a three-
level reduction for ac ceptance of responsibility.  The tota l offense level is 30, and Huseth’s 
criminal history category is I, resulting in a co rrectly calculated Guidelines range of 97 to 120 
months.   Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 1 of 352  Huseth seeks a substantial departure downward under U.S.S.G. § 5H1.4 (Physical 
Condition) and a substantial vari ance downward on the basis of hi s lifelong condition of Autism 
Spectrum Disorder (“ASD”), his significant cognitive impairments, his particularized 
vulnerability, and his need for treatment.  Hu seth requests a sentence of probation, with any 
conditions the Court finds appropriate.   The government advocates for a two-level downward variance in recognition of this 
Court’s prior rulings that the two-level enhancement for use of a computer is no longer a 
distinguishing specific offense characteristic in  an age when virtually all such crimes are 
committed through the use of a computer.
1  The government thus advocates for a sentence of 78 
months, the bottom of the Guidelin es range of 78 to 97 months for a total offense level of 28 and 
criminal history category of I.    In the three years since Huseth pled gu ilty, the parties have engaged in extensive 
discovery concerning Huseth’s AS D and whether he has Pedophilic Disorder.  The parties have 
obtained evaluations, diagnoses, reports, a nd testimony from experts and have presented 
evidence at several sentencing hearings.  The C ourt has the benefit of the opinions of five 
experts.  Sarah Dettmer, a psychologist, has trea ted Huseth since 2013 for ASD.  Defense expert 
Dr. Rachel Loftin, a psyc hologist who specializes in ASD, di d extensive testing of Huseth and 
his parents and a comprehensive evaluati on.  Defense expert Dr. George Athey, a 
neuropsychologist who specializes in treatment of sex offenders,  tested and evaluated Huseth 
and concluded that Huseth does not have Pedoph ilic Disorder.  The gover nment’s experts, Dr. 
Eric Imhof and Dr. Kimberly Spence, interviewed Huseth and reviewed the reports of Dr. Loftin 
 
1 See U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, Federal Sentencing of Child Pornography Non-Production Offenses 9 (2021). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 2 of 353 and Dr. Athey.  Dr. Spence opined that Huseth ha s ASD.  Dr. Imhof opined that Huseth has 
Pedophilic Disorder.    There is no dispute that Huse th has ASD, but there is a di spute about the degree of his 
impairment and the degree to which it impaired his ability to fully appreciate the wrongfulness of 
possessing and viewing child por nography.  There is also a dis pute about whether Huseth has 
Pedophilic Disorder.   The Court has carefully reviewed the testimony and exhibits, the Presentence 
Investigation Report, as well as the many me moranda and pleadings filed by the parties.
2  Based 
on this extensive record, the Cour t concludes that Huseth’s ASD a nd associated severe cognitive 
deficits significantly impaired his ability to fully appreciate  the wrongfulness of possessing and 
viewing child pornography.  Though Huseth underst ood enough to justify a plea to knowingly 
and intentionally possessing child pornography, he is not a neurotypical person and, without any 
explicit explanation, could not fu lly appreciate that the childre n involved were horrifically 
abused physically, mentally, and emotionally.  Huseth’s ASD furt her renders him particularly 
vulnerable to bullying and worse inju ry in a prison environment.   
 And, having carefully weighed the testimony an d opinions of the experts, the Court finds 
that Huseth does not have Pe dophilic Disorder.  Nonetheless,  the Court concludes that a 
probation sentence with treatment and therapeutic conditions tailor ed to his ASD as well as to 
sex offenders who are pedophilic co nstitutes a sentence that is su fficient but not greater than 
necessary to satisfy the statut ory sentencing purposes set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a).  For all 
 
2 The record includes: Huseth’s Sealed Sentencing Memorandum and Motion for Downward Departure or 
Variance (Doc. 31); the government’s Response to Defe ndant’s Sentencing Memorand um. (Doc. 35); Huseth’s 
Reply to the Government’s Sentencing Memorandum (Doc. 63); Huseth’s Supplemental Sentencing Information: 
Sentencing Data in Autism-Related Child Pornography Cases (Doc. 67); and the government’s Sur-Reply to 
Defendant’s Reply to Government’s Sentencing Memorandum (Doc. 68). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 3 of 354 these reasons, pursuant to § 3553( a), the Court finds that a su bstantial downward variance is 
warranted, as explained more fully below.  I. Legal Standard  
 After United States v. Booker ,
3 district courts are no longer required to impose a 
Guidelines sentence.  The Guidelines should still be “the starting point and the initial 
benchmark,”4 but “district courts may impose senten ces within statutory limits based on 
appropriate consideration of all the factors listed  in [18 U.S.C.] § 3553(a).”5  That statute 
provides: 
The court shall impose a sentence sufficient, but not greater than 
necessary, to comply with the purp oses set forth in paragraph (2) 
of this subsection.  The court, in determining the particular 
sentence to be imposed, shall consider— (1) the nature and circumstances of  the offense and the history and 
characteristics of the defendant; (2) the need for the sentence imposed-- 
(A) to reflect the seriousness of the offense, to promote 
respect for the law, and to pr ovide just punish ment for the 
offense; 
(B) to afford adequate dete rrence to criminal conduct; 
(C) to protect the public fr om further crimes of the 
defendant; and 
(D) to provide the defendant with needed educational or 
vocational training, medical ca re, or other correctional 
treatment in the most effective manner; 
(3) the kinds of sentences available; (4) the kinds of sentence[s] and the sentencing range established 
for . . . the applicable category of offense committed by the applicable category of defendant as set forth in the guidelines . . . ; 
(5) any pertinent policy statement . . . issued by the Sentencing Commission . . . ; (6) the need to avoid unwarrant ed sentence disparities among 
defendants with similar records who have been found guilty of 
similar conduct; and 
 
3 543 U.S. 220 (2005). 
4 Pepper v. United States , 562 U.S. 476, 490 (2011) (quoting Gall v. United States , 552 U.S. 38, 49 
(2007)). 
5 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 4 of 355 (7) the need to provide restitution to any victims of the offense.6 
  In determining whether a defendant is entitl ed to a variance, a district court “should 
engage in a holistic inquir y of the § 3553(a) factors.”
7  The court “must consider the extent of the 
deviation [from the Guidelines] and ensure that the justification is sufficiently compelling to 
support the degree of the variance.”8  “A ‘major’ variance should  have ‘a more significant 
justification than a minor one.’”9  That said, the Supreme Court has rejected “an appellate rule 
that requires ‘extraordinary’ circumstances to ju stify a sentence outside  the Guidelines range” 
and “the use of a rigid mathematical formula th at uses the percentage of a departure as the 
standard for determining the st rength of the justifications required for a specific sentence.”10 
II. Analysis 
A. Nature, Circumstances, and Seriousness of the Offense  
 In June 2014, an FBI task force officer us ed a computer to launch a law enforcement 
version of a peer-to-peer softwa re to search for IP addresses offering to share files containing 
child pornography.  On June 29, 2014, the office r downloaded a partial file from Huseth’s 
computer, but the file did not me et the definition of child por nography.  From July 4 to August 
10, 2014, the officer downloaded from Huseth’s computer numerous images and video files 
containing child pornography.   In November 2014, the FBI executed a search wa rrant at Huseth’s residence, seizing his 
computer and related equipment.   Huseth had a collection of 271 child pornography videos and 
 
6 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a). 
7 United States v. Lente , 759 F.3d 1149, 1174 (10th Cir. 2014) (quoting United States v. Lopez-Macias , 661 
F.3d 485, 492 (10th Cir. 2011)).  
8 Id. (alteration in original)  (quoting Gall v. United States , 552 U.S. 38, 50 (2007)). 
9 Id. (quoting Gall, 522 U.S. at 50). 
10 Id. (quoting Gall, 552 U.S. at 47). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 5 of 356 12,198 child pornography images.  While these numbe rs may seem extreme, they are not.  In 
June 2021, the U.S. Sentencing Commission issued a report titled, Federal Sentencing of Child 
Pornography Non-Production Offenses , which updates and expands upon its 2012 child 
pornography report.11  Among its key findings was that in  fiscal year 2019 (“FY 2019”), “non-
production child pornography offenses involved a me dian number of 4,265 images, with some 
offenders possessing and distributing millions of images and videos.”12  The Sentencing 
Commission also found that 95.4% of defendants  convicted of non-production possession of 
child pornography received an enhan cement for having 600 or more images.13  The Sentencing 
Commission explained that, “[f]acilitated by ad vancements in digital and mobile technology, 
non-production child pornography offens es increasingly involve volu minous quantities of videos 
and images that are graphic in nature , often involving the youngest victims.”14 
 Huseth’s child pornography collection included images and videos of infants, toddlers, 
prepubescent minors, and teenage gi rls, some of which depicted sa distic or masochistic conduct.  
Sadly, this material is typical ly found in the collections of  those convicted of non-production 
child pornography offenses.  In FY 2019, 52.2% of defendants convicted of non-production child 
pornography offenses had images or  videos of infants or toddl ers, and 99.4% had images of 
prepubescent victims.15  Further, 96.3% of defendants c onvicted of non-production possession of 
child pornography received an e nhancement for images depicti ng victims under 12 years old, and 
 
11 See U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, supra note 1.  
12 Id. at 4.  Huseth was convicted of the offense th at the Sentencing Commission categorizes as non-
production possession of child pornography.  The Sentencing Commission’s report categorizes two other non-
production offenses: receipt of  child pornography and distri bution of child pornography.  See id. at 1. 
13 Id. at 19.  
14 Id. at 4. 
15 Id.  Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 6 of 357 78.6% of such defendants received an enhancement for images depicting sa distic or masochistic 
conduct or abuse of an infant or toddler.16  These enhancements, in the Sentencing Commission’s 
view, “cover conduct so ubiquitous that they now a pply in the vast major ity of cases sentenced 
under § 2G2.2.”17 
 The nature and circumstances of Huseth’s offense are quite typical when compared to 
other defendants convicted of non-production po ssession of child pornography.  The majority of 
these cases involve voluminous qua ntities of images and videos, victims under the age of 12 or 
prepubescent minors, images depicting sadistic  and masochistic condu ct, and the use of a 
computer––all of which are specific offe nse enhancements un der the Guidelines.18   
 At the same time, certain aggravating circum stances are not present in this case.  The 
Sentencing Commission found that participation in an online community devoted to child 
pornography and engagement in se xual conduct with a child prior to or concurrently with the 
offense are aggravating factors that the Gu idelines fail to adequately account for.19  In FY 2019, 
43.7% of non-production child pornography offe nders participated in an online child 
pornography community,20 and 48% engaged in aggravati ng sexual conduct prior to or 
concurrently with the offense.21  There is no evidence that Huseth participated in any online child 
pornography community or engaged in  sexual conduct with a child during or prio r to the offense.  
 
16 Id. at 19. 
17 Id. at 4.  
18 See id. at 19.  Moreover, close to 40% of defendants convicted of non-production possession of child 
pornography received a two-level distribution enhancement.  See id.  
19 Id. at 6. 
20 Id. at 38. 
21 Id. at 40–41. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 7 of 358  Nor is there evidence that Huseth specifical ly sought out images depicting infants or 
toddlers, or images depi cting sadistic or masoch istic conduct.  Huseth frequently used the search 
term “PTHC,” which is an acronym for “Preteen Hard Core.”  But Huseth did not know what 
PTHC stood for.  And he did not search for pa rticular ages or age gr oups either; instead, he 
searched by series name, which sometimes incl uded the age of the child (most commonly 12 
years old).   The typicality of the circumstances of Huseth’s offense in no way diminishes the seriousness of this offense.  The Court consider s this offense extremely serious.  The acquisition 
and possession of child pornography creates mark et demand for the horrific sexual assault and 
exploitation of children, and it ca uses these children continuing harm as these horrific images 
continue to be distribu ted, shared, and viewed. 
B. History and Characteristics of the Defendant  
 The Court has an extensive record of Huseth ’s history and character istics, documented in 
educational and medical reco rds relied upon by the experts w ho treated, evaluated, and/or 
assessed Huseth, and who produced comprehensive re ports of their findings .  Huseth retained 
Rachel Loftin, Ph.D., a psychologi st who specializes in evaluati ng and treating individuals with 
ASD.  Dr. Loftin is the Clinical Director of  the Autism Assessment, Research and Treatment 
Center at Rush University Medical Center.  Hu seth also offered the reports of his treating 
psychologist, Sarah Dettmer, M.S.Ed., M.S., LPC,  LCPC, who specializes  in counseling people 
with ASD and has 22 years of experience in the field.  Ms. Dettmer has treated Huseth for ASD 
in individual and group therapy since 2013, before he was apprehended by law enforcement in 
this case.  The government offered the testimony  of Kimberly Spence, Ph.D., an ASD specialist Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 8 of 359 who works with Dr. Eric Imhof at Specialized Treatment and Assessment Resources, P.A. in 
Florida.     1. Autism Spectrum Disorder 
 Dr. Loftin, Dr. Spence, and Ms. Dettmer al l agree that Huseth has ASD, a lifelong 
neurodevelopmental disorder that  presents in early childhood.  According to the Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders:  
Autism spectrum disorder is characterized by persistent 
deficits in social communicati on and social interaction across 
multiple contexts, including de ficits in social reciprocity, 
nonverbal communicative behaviors used for social  interaction, 
and skills in developing, ma intaining, and understanding 
relationships.  In addition to the social communication deficits, the diagnosis of autism spectrum di sorder requires the presence of 
restricted, repetitive patterns of be havior, interests, or activities.  
Because symptoms change with development and may be masked 
by compensatory mechanisms, the diagnostic criteria may be met 
based on historical information, although the current presentation 
must cause signifi cant impairment. 
 
Within the diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder, 
individual clinical characterist ics are noted through the use of 
specifiers (with or without accomp anying intellectual impairment; 
with or without accompanying st ructural language impairment; 
associated with a known medical or genetic condition or environmental factor; associated with another neurodevelopmental, 
mental, or behavioral disorder), as  well as specifiers that describe 
the autistic symptoms (age at firs t concern; with or without loss of 
established skills; severity).  These specifiers provide clinicians with an opportunity to i ndividualize the diagnosis and 
communicate a richer clinical description of the affected individuals.  For example, many individuals previously diagnosed 
with Asperger’s disorder would now  receive a diagnosis of autism 
spectrum disorder without language  or intellectual impairment.
22 
  Ms. Dettmer has been treating Huseth fo r ASD since 2013.  Dr. Spence relied on Dr. 
Loftin’s thorough evaluation of Huse th and the raw data in concludi ng that Huseth has ASD.  In 
 
22 Am. Psychiatric Ass’n, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5 31–32 (5th ed. 
2013).  Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 9 of 3510 her comprehensive evaluation, Dr. Loftin adminis tered the Scales of Independent Behavior, 
Revised (“SIB-R”) to Huseth’s parents, which is “an individual assessment of adaptive behavior, 
which can be defined as day-to-day activities nece ssary to take care of oneself and get along with 
others.”23  Dr. Loftin also administe red multiple tests to Huseth : Autism Diagnostic Observation 
Schedule (“ADOS2”), Minnesota Multiphasic Pe rsonality Inventory (“MMPI-2”), Test of 
Problem Solving (“TOPS-3”), We chsler Adult Intelligence Scale (“WAIS-IV”), and Millon 
Clinical Multiaxial Inve ntory (“MCMI-III”).   
 Based on her evaluation, Dr. Loftin offered an extensive opinion about the severity of 
Huseth’s ASD and how it affects his behavior.  She found: 
Mr. Huseth can appear as rather  typical.  He is bright, has a 
good vocabulary and has no visible di sabilities.  Despite outward 
appearances of normalcy, Mr. Huse th has very significant social 
and adaptive skills deficits.  His abil ity to operate in social contexts 
and to care for himself are subs tantially delayed.  In many key 
contexts (including making inferenc es in social situations, caring 
for a home, preparing his meals,  and social interaction in 
community settings), he is f unctioning on the level of an  
8-year[-]old child.  
Mr. Huseth clearly meets the di agnostic criteria for Autism 
Spectrum Disorder (ASD).  Defic its in social-communication and 
the presence of atypical behavi ors associated with autism were 
evident from early childhood.  So cial-communication deficits, 
particularly making inferences about  social behavior, are severe.  
There are limits in his ab ility to think about his social relationships.  
He can provide definitions of cer tain relationships but struggles 
when asked about others’ experiences.  He presents as very socially naïve and lack s knowledge about how to behave in social 
interaction.  Mr. Huseth ha s a long history of intense 
preoccupations with particular t opics, and these preoccupations can 
interfere with social engagement .  There is also a history of 
insistence on verbal rituals, repetitive behaviors, and unusual sensory seeking behaviors in early childhood (sniffing people, 
mouthing), and behavioral rigidity.  The diagnosis of Autism 
Spectrum Disorder without Intellectual Disability, Social-
 
23 Doc. 31-1 at 5. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 10 of 3511 Communication Severity score of 1 (“requiring support” ) is 
appropriate for Mr. Huseth .24 
 
 Huseth’s developmental delays were identifi ed by the age of 2.  He was non-verbal, made 
no eye contact, engaged in repeti tive behaviors, disp layed limited social engagement, and had 
significant language delays.  Huseth was placed in a special educati on preschool class for 
children with developmental disorders.  He re ceived speech therapy because he did not speak, 
but by second grade it was dete rmined that he could read. 
 When Huseth began seeing a psychologist, he was given other diagnoses.  At the age of 
19, he was diagnosed with Attention Deficit H yperactivity Disorder (“ADHD”) and Asperger’s 
Disorder (now ASD),25 as well as Social Phobia and depr ession.  Following these diagnoses, 
Huseth commenced mental health therapy.  Huse th received such services from 2005 to 2013 but 
described the therapy as not pr oductive, until he started group a nd individual therapy sessions 
with Ms. Dettmer in 2013.  The government points to Huseth ’s high IQ, the fact that he a ttended college, and the fact 
that he can drive a car as evidence that his ASD is not severe.  Dr. Lof tin scored Huseth’s Full 
Scale IQ at 123 and noted that he has good voca bulary.  But, despite his high IQ, Huseth is 
severely impaired and, in many area s, functions at the level of an  8-year-old.  As Dr. Loftin 
notes, intelligence is no hedge against severe imp airment of adaptive functional ability.  Huseth 
drives a car, but his parents have  to manage oil changes, repair s, and maintenance.  Huseth 
excelled at math and majored in civil engineer ing, but he dropped out of college because he 
 
24 Id. at 14. 
25 The DSM-5 folded Asperger’s Disorder into the umbrella diagnosis of ASD.  See Am. Psychiatric Ass’n, 
supra note 15, at 51 (“Individuals with a well-established DSM-IV diagnosis of autistic disorder, Asperger’s 
disorder or pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified should be given the diagnosis of autism 
spectrum disorder.”). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 11 of 3512 struggled with higher-level, collaborative projects that required him to interact with others, and 
he could not tolerate  living with a roomma te or on campus.   
 After Huseth dropped out of college, he trained to be an electrician, at his father’s urging.  
But he has been unable to maintain  employment.  He is bullied by peers and struggles to interact 
with others.  Ms. Dettmer attributed Huseth’s difficulties at work to  his “concrete way of 
thinking.”26 She described one example—the foreman at a previous job told Huseth to “holler at 
me when you are done.”27  Huseth interpreted that literally and hollered or yelled at the foreman 
across the job site to in form him the job was done.  Ms. Dettm er explained that she has worked 
with Huseth “to help him understand and res pond appropriately to peer and supervisor 
interactions.”28 
 Although Huseth lived in an apartment at the time of the search warrant, that was short-
lived.  For all but two of his adult years, he has resided with his parents.  Huseth’s parents, who 
by all accounts provide a loving and highly supportive environment for him, have described his 
challenges with certain ac tivities of daily living.  For example, they have to repeatedly show him 
how to address an envelope.  And they recalled that after a recent dent al appointment, Huseth 
told them he did not realize that he was supposed to brush all the surfaces of his teeth; he thought 
he only needed to brush the chewing surfaces.    Huseth has never been married, has no child ren, and has never been in a long-term 
romantic relationship.  He has fe w or no friends; he describes hi s “best friend” as a woman from 
California he met online playing World of Warcra ft, whom he has never seen in person.  In 
 
26 Doc. 31-3 at 1.  
27 Id.  
28 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 12 of 3513 social interactions, Huseth cont inues to be bullied by others and taken advantage of by those who 
detect his naïveté and vulnerability.  
 Dr. Loftin notes that “H useth can appear very odd.”29  He has a history of intense 
preoccupations that interfere with social engagement and a history of insistence on verbal rituals 
and repetitive behaviors.  Dr. Loftin found th at “his mindblindness fu rther complicates the 
picture because he is not aware of how unusual his behavior ca n seem to others.”30  This, she 
explained, is a cornerstone of ASD.  According to Dr. Loftin, “[t]he Theory of the Mind,” a 
“dominant theor[y] in ASD,” “asserts that ‘mindblindness’ is at the r oot of social difficulties of 
this disorder, meaning that peopl e with ASD have difficulty attr ibuting mental states (beliefs, 
desires, and intentions) to others, and also have difficul ty understanding that others have internal 
states that diffe r from one’s own.”31  As a consequence, people with ASD have delayed or no 
development of certain social capab ilities, and more advanced capabilit ies fail to develop at all.  
2. Huseth Did Not Fully Appreci ate the Wrongfulness and Harm  
 Huseth’s motion for variance is based in pa rt on his failure to fully appreciate the 
wrongfulness of possessing child pornography and th e harm done to the children depicted in the 
pornography.  To be sure, Huseth knowingly a nd intentionally possessed child pornography and 
had the mens rea  rendering him guilty of the offense.  And the Court recognizes that a departure  
based on diminished capacity is  forbidden under U.S.S.G. § 5K2.13 for crimes involving child 
pornography.  But in considering whether a vari ance is appropriate, the Court may consider 
Huseth’s cognitive impairments and deficits to th e extent that he did not fully appreciate the 
wrongfulness of his actions. 
 
29 Doc. 31-1 at 15. 
30 Id. 
31 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 13 of 3514  There is substantial evidence that, while Huseth’s ASD did not cause  him to possess 
child pornography, his ASD impaired his ability to understand why it was wrongful and that 
children were gravely harmed in the production of the pornography.  As Ms. Dettmer explained, 
Huseth is “extremely naïve and like other individuals with ASD he  demonstrates difficulty with 
taking the perspective of others and lacks soci al awareness of routine social conventions.”32  Ms. 
Dettmer described Huseth’s initial lack of understanding about what he had done wrong: “He became quite upset in the clinical office and st ated ‘I just viewed it, I didn’t hurt them.’”
33  
Similarly, when Dr. Spence and Dr . Imhof interviewed him, Huseth  said, “I always thought it’s 
wrong like in the long run to do that to a kid in re al life and I didn’t rea lly think it was wrong to 
look at it. . . .   I guess I compare it to a Peeping Tom or something.”34  Ms. Dettmer noted that 
Huseth would not fully appreciate that “a child depicted in a se xual pose or having sexual contact 
with another child or an adult wa s the subject of abusive criminal  conduct, or that the child did 
not want to be there.  He would most likely al so miss facial expression s that might make that 
unambiguous for typical viewers.”35 
 Ms. Dettmer and Dr. Loftin both spoke to th is concept of “mindbli ndness” in Huseth and 
his impaired ability to recognize or understand the internal mental st ates of others.  It is this 
impairment that distinguishes neurotypical people, who from y ears of social interaction—and 
reading and intuiting the behavior  of others—develop an awarene ss of community standards that 
child pornography is wrong because of the harm it causes children.  Neurotypical people’s ability 
to interact, infer, and intuit allows them to  understand that child por nography is harmful to 
 
32 Doc. 31-3 at 3. 
33 Id. 
34 Huseth Ex. A at 41.  All citations prefaced with “Ex.” refer to exhibits that were  admitted at the June 8, 
2021 evidentiary hearing.   
35 Doc. 31-3 at 3.  Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 14 of 3515 children and why it is an abomin ation under societal st andards, without anyone  expressly telling 
them so.  But Huseth’s ability to intuit unexpress ed but implicit societal rules is impaired.  In 
fact, Dr. Loftin found that Huseth  scored at an age equivalent  of 8 years and 8 months in 
“making inferences” on a social  problem-solving evaluation.36   
 Huseth generally understood that it was wrong to hurt children.  He told Dr. Spence and 
Dr. Imhof that he would delete  child pornography “where the gi rl[] [wa]s obviously getting hurt . 
. . or if the girl . . . seemed upset.”37  But Huseth then stated, “Y ou know, actually, I don’t think I 
came across that too often but sometimes.”38  This illustrates Huseth’s impaired ability to read 
the facial expressions and emotional states of the ch ildren and to understand that all children 
depicted in child pornography are being hurt.    Ms. Dettmer further noted that a neurotypica l person would also understand that people 
who view child pornography are enco uraging its producers, but Huse th’s “appreciation of that 
kind of connection is impaired, not for lack of values, but for lack  of normal functioning of his 
brain.”
39 
 The government argues that Huseth demons trated he understood the gravity of his 
conduct when he asked Agent Craig Enloe what ki nd of prison sentence he was looking at.  
During the execution of the search warrant, Agent Enloe interviewed Huseth in a car parked outside Huseth’s apartment.  Agent Enloe recorded the interview, and the Court has listened to it.  
Huseth asked about a prison sentence only after agen ts identified themselves  as law enforcement, 
produced a search warrant, swarmed his apartmen t, and began seizing his computer and related 
 
36 Doc. 31-1 at 13.  
37 Huseth Ex. A at 33.   
38 Id. 
39 Doc. 31-3 at 3. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 15 of 3516 items.  And Huseth raised this question well into  the interview, after Agent Enloe had asked him 
numerous questions about the type and quant ity of child pornography he possessed, how he 
obtained it, whether he had dist ributed it, and whether he had sexual contact with children.  
Huseth’s question in no way evidences that he fu lly appreciated the wrongf ulness of his actions.  
 The government points to othe r evidence that, it argues, indi cates Huseth appreciated the 
wrongfulness of his actions.  For instance, Huseth  told agents that he had not disclosed to his 
therapist that he viewed child pornography because  he was too embarrassed to tell her.  But Ms. 
Dettmer advised that “Huseth had not discussed the use of pornography in any format with [her] 
prior to his computer being take n by police.  Since this has taken place, he has processed his 
experiences and use of both adult and child porn in therapy sessions.”40  The government 
misstates the record when it ar gues that Huseth had discussed adult pornography but not child 
pornography with his therapist.    The government also argues that, despite Huseth ’s parents’ account th at Huseth discussed 
his short-term sexual encounters w ith them in embarrassingly grap hic detail, Huseth did not tell 
them about viewing child pornography.  But the record does not indicate that Huseth’s 
inappropriately graphic candor w ith his parents occurred before  he was apprehended.  Instead, 
the evidence is that Huseth’s pa rents had not talked much to Hu seth about any sexual matters as 
he was growing up.  The Court simply will not as sume from Huseth’s silence that he fully 
appreciated the wrongfulness of viewing child pornography.  Huse th’s parents never expressly 
told him that viewing child pornography was wrong and why, and Huseth’s ASD impaired his 
ability to intuit the unspoken prohibition of child pornography. 
 
40 Id. at 2 (emphasis added). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 16 of 3517  The government also suggests that Huseth told Agent Enloe that he had Asperger’s 
Syndrome as an excuse for his behavior, whic h indicates he understood the wrongfulness of his 
conduct.  But having reviewed Ag ent Enloe’s recorded interview of Huset h, the Court is not 
convinced that Huseth was attempting to excu se or justify his conduct.  Rather, Huseth 
mentioned that he had Asperger’s Syndrome in th e context of telling Agen t Enloe that he had a 
therapist and that he ha d not told her that he possessed child pornography. 
 Further, the government suggests that Huse th minimized the frequency that he viewed 
child versus adult pornography, in dicating he understood the wrongfulne ss of his conduct.  When 
pressed by Dr. Imhof, Huseth  stated that he spent half to tw o-thirds of the time he viewed 
pornography looking at adult pornography and that , of the time he spent viewing child 
pornography, the majority was spent viewing mate rials depicting teenagers, not prepubescent 
children.  But there is no evidence that Huseth  understated the relativ e time he spent viewing 
child pornography, and the Court declines to speculate that  Huseth was minimizing.   
 It also bears noting that Ag ent Enloe could not have apprec iated the extent of Huseth’s 
cognitive deficits while interviewing him.  Ag ent Enloe interpreted Hu seth’s answers to his 
questions through the filter of how  a neurotypical person would re spond.  But, as Dr. Loftin and 
Ms. Dettmer repeatedly noted, Huseth has significant cognitive deficits that affect his ability to 
communicate effectively.    Dr. George Athey, Jr., Ph.D, ABPP, is a neuropsychologist retained by Huseth to 
evaluate his sexual behavior and sexual interest patterns.  Dr. Athey treats sex offenders in a 
clinical practice, after 27 years of such practi ce at the famed Menniger Clinic.  Dr. Athey was not 
retained to evaluate Huseth’s ASD.  Nonethel ess, in the course of his evaluation, Dr. Athey 
observed that Huseth “evidences clear deficits in cognitive ab ility to express his emotional Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 17 of 3518 experience and to maintain a c onsistent context for responding to questions about his sexual 
experience in particular that could allow him to  appreciate what other people would think he is 
communicating regarding his se xual attraction and behavioral  intent towards children.”41 
 Dr. Spence and Dr. Imhof submitted a joint re port that focused sole ly on the question of 
Huseth’s sexual behavior and interests.42  Dr. Imhof is a clinical ps ychologist who specializes in 
treating sex offenders, including ca ses involving child pornography, now in private practice after 
many years of directing program s for state and federal sex of fenders.  Dr. Spence’s and Dr. 
Imhof’s joint report acknowledges that Huseth has ASD but evalua tes his behavior and interests 
without regard to his ASD, and without any appa rent appreciation that th eir interview (and Agent 
Enloe’s interview) should take account of Huse th’s cognitive deficits a nd ability to communicate 
effectively.  To the contrary, a nd surprisingly given Dr. Spence’s expertise in ASD, their report 
characterizes Huseth as having “deficits in th e general self-regulati on domain including poor 
cognitive problem solving in that he describes he does not consider the consequences of his 
actions before making a decision.”43 And while the report notes that “Huseth struggles to 
understand the impact of his viewing pornogr aphy depicting minors on the victims,”44 it 
characterizes this as “[him] demonstrat [ing] [a] lack of concern for others.”45   
 Given Dr. Spence’s and Dr. Imhof’s focus on the question of Huseth’s sexual behavior 
and sexual interests, and their disregard for Huseth ’s ASD, the Court gives little weight to their 
 
41 Doc. 31-2 at 9.  
42 See Gov.  Ex. 50. 
43 Id. at 8.  
44 Id. 
45 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 18 of 3519 characterization of Huseth to the extent it relates to whether he fully appreciated the 
wrongfulness of viewin g child pornography.   
 Huseth’s ASD impaired his ability to see th e harm in viewing child pornography.  As Dr. 
Loftin explained: 
[M]ost typical peers acquire in formation about sexual norms and 
expectations from peers a nd media.  No one explicitly says that it 
is illegal to look at sexual images of childre n.  Individuals with 
ASD do not acquire information from  their peers and the media in 
the same way.  Even the most basi c information must be taught in 
an explicit and clear fashion for people with ASD.  If someone 
with ASD is not told, for exampl e, that looking at images of a 
person below the age of consent or  onset of puberty is wrong and 
can indirectly cause harm to other children by creating a demand 
for the product, he or she may not know that it is not acceptable.  
Particularly for a person with  ASD who, like Mr. Huseth, has 
significant deficits in inferencing, it would be nearly impossible to 
comprehend this information without being explicitly told.  That is, he would not understand th at a child is unhappy being 
photographed because he is not unhappy to see it.
46 
 In short, although Huseth’s ASD did not cau se his behavior, his ASD substantially 
contributed to the commission of  the offense because it impaired his ability to fully understand 
that viewing child pornography is wrong and why it is  wrong.  This inability  to intuit and infer, 
coupled with the fact he never received explicit instructions on the topic, contributed to his 
commission of this offense.  Furt her, Huseth lacked the ability to  exercise the power of reason to 
appreciate that every child depi cted in child pornography has been  raped, abused, and irreparably 
harmed.  
C. Promote Respect for the Law 
 During the three years since Huseth was charged with this offense, he has been on pretrial 
release and has been compliant w ith the terms of his bond supervis ion.  He has followed the rules 
 
46 Doc. 31-1 at 14–15.  Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 19 of 3520 and continued to see Ms. Dettmer for therapy.  Ms. Dettmer stated, “He now understands the 
reasoning behind the prohibition and th e victimization that is depicte d.  He feels terrible that he 
did what he did, now that he understands w hy it is wrong.  He now understands the rules.”47  She 
explained that people with ASD “follow the rules once they understand them,” and “this is very 
true in the case of [Huseth].”48  “During my work with Mr. Hu seth,” she added, “he has been 
observed during social skills training to follow rules to a fault.”49 
 Dr. Loftin and Dr. Athey also noted that pe ople with ASD are “rule followers,” once they 
know the rules.  Dr. Imhof agreed, though he testif ied that he has had some sex offenders with 
ASD who recidivated.50  Huseth’s parents provided an exam ple of his firm allegiance to rules 
once he knows them.  During driver’s education, Huseth was taught to stop the car well before 
the intersection.  Huseth is so co mpliant with this rule  that he typically stops an unusually long 
distance from the intersection, so metimes impeding his ability to see oncoming traffic before he 
slowly inches forward.  
 A prison sentence is often necessary to prom ote respect for the law.  But Huseth has 
demonstrated his respect for the law through a prolonged, three-year peri od of abiding by his 
many conditions of pretrial release, most of which will continue during his future term of 
supervision.   
D. Afford Adequate Deterrence to Criminal Conduct  
 Preventing the future abuse of children  through the manufacture, distribution, and 
possession of child pornography by generally dete rring such conduct is always an important 
 
47 Doc. 31-3 at 3. 
48 Id. at 4. 
49 Id. 
50 As discussed infra , considering the nature of the offense and Huseth’s history and characteristics, he 
presents a low risk of recidivism.  Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 20 of 3521 factor in sentencing.  Congress, the Supreme Court, and the Sentencing Commission have long 
recognized the importance of ge neral deterrence in considering an appropriate sentence.51   
 With respect to Huseth’s specific deterrenc e, for the reasons addressed above, the Court 
concludes that a prison sentence is not necessary in  this case to either pr omote respect for the law 
or to afford adequate deterrence to criminal conduct.   
E. Protect the Public from Fu rther Crimes of the Defendant  
 The parties offered conflicting opinions about  whether Huseth has Pedophilic Disorder.  
Dr. Imhof and Dr. Spence opined that Huseth qual ifies for a diagnosis of  “Pedophilic Disorder, 
non-exclusive type, sexually attracted to females” based on their opinion that  he is attracted to 
children and uses child pornogr aphy to cope with depression.52  They found that Huseth met the 
three criteria for this diagnosis:  
[R]ecurrent, intense sexually arous ing fantasies, sexual urges, or 
behaviors involving sexual activ ity with a prepubescent child 
(generally age 13 years or younger) for a duration of six months 
(Criterion A); the individual has ac ted on these sexual urges or the 
sexual urges or fantasies have  caused marked distress or 
interpersonal difficulty (Criterion B); and the person is at least sixteen years of age and at least fi ve years older than the child or 
children (Criterion C).
53   
 There is no dispute that Huseth  meets Criterion A and Criterion C.   But Criterion B requires that 
the person has acted on the sexual urges or that th e sexual urges or fantasies have caused marked 
distress or interpersonal difficul ty.  Huseth has not acted on a ny sexual urges involving children, 
and there is no evidence that Huseth’s urges or  fantasies have caused him marked distress or 
 
51 Osbourne v. Ohio , 495 U.S. 102, 109–10 (1990) (“It is also surely reasonable for the State to conclude 
that it will decrease the production of child pornography if it penalizes those who possess and view the product, 
thereby decreasing demand.”).   
52 Gov. Ex. 50 at 9. 
53 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 21 of 3522 interpersonal difficulty.  He had not told his th erapist, parents, or a nyone about viewing child 
pornography until he was apprehended.  There is no evidence that it has af fected his functioning 
or his relationships, or othe rwise caused him distress. 
 Notably, Dr. Imhof found that Huseth meets Criterion B beca use he suffered distress and 
interpersonal difficulty when he was appr ehended and charged with possession of child 
pornography.  Following this logic, had Huseth no t been apprehended, he would not qualify for 
the diagnosis of Pedophilic Disorder.  That Dr . Imhof’s diagnosis hinges on the fact that 
Huseth’s conduct was detected is nonsensical.  Further, Dr. Spence’s and Dr. Imhof’s report and 
testimony indicates that th eir opinion that Huseth has Pedophilic Disorder also re lies in part on 
certain statements Huseth “reportedly” made to the agents who interviewed him.  But Dr. 
Spence’s and Dr. Imhof’s account of some of those statements is in accurate or takes them out of 
context.    Dr. Loftin, Dr. Athey, and Ms. Dettmer all opin e that Huseth is not sexually attracted to 
children and does not have Pedophilic Disorder.  Dr. Athey evaluated Huseth with a focus on 
identification of Huseth’s “patterns of sexual interest and understanding the basis for these 
interests from the perspective of the history of his development of sexual experience over time 
and the deficits in his functioning in development of  relationships.”
54  To that end, Dr. Athey 
reviewed Dr. Loftin’s psychologi cal evaluation report, interviewe d Huseth, and administered the 
MMPI-2-RF test and the Abel Assessme nt for Sexual Interest (“AASI-3”).55  Dr. Athey noted 
that the AASI-3 is an empirically validated system for assessing sexual interest among 
 
54 Doc. 31-2 at 1. 
55 Part of the AASI-3 administered by Dr. Athey included data from another patient who was apparently 
assigned the same client ID as Huseth.  But this did not invalidate Dr. Athey’s evaluation, because he could 
ascertain which data applied to Huseth, and he did not cons ider the mistakenly included data from the other patient. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 22 of 3523 neurotypical persons.  Dr. Athey evaluated th e test results and obser ved that Huseth has 
significant communication deficits.  He also noted significant cogni tive problems in memory and 
concentration and “disco ntinuities in thinking.”56  Dr. Athey also reviewed the MMPI-2 tests 
administered to Huseth in 2014 and 2015, including the checking of  validity scales, which might 
bear on the weight to give to the AASI-3.  Dr. At hey found the MMPI-2 test results to be valid.   
 Dr. Athey concluded that Huseth does not  have Pedophilic Disorder and explained: 
It is my opinion within a r easonable degree of psychological 
certainty that [Huseth] does not  pose risk for progressing beyond 
his viewing of child images into approaching children for sexual 
gratification.  He requires ongoing treatment for his autism 
spectrum disorder condition to  understand the source of his 
abnormal viewing practices and how to interact with adult females 
in order to have more satisfyi ng emotional relationships with 
them.57 
 
 Dr. Imhof took issue with Dr. Athey’s report primarily because of the data on the Visual 
Reaction Time (“VRT”) part of th e test, which showed Huseth’s viewing time of female adults, 
adolescents, 6–13-year-olds, and children 5-years-old and younger signified sexual interest in 
children. 
Dr. Athey found that based on vi sual reaction time alone, the test suggested a problematic 
interest in the 6–13 age group, but not in any younger age group.  But Dr. Athey did not place as 
much weight on the VRT data as Dr. Imhof.  Dr. Athey explained that “the average ratings for 
age group fell within a region of disgust,”58 and stressed that “[i]t is important to recall that the 
arousal ratings in this portion of the protocol refer to the de gree of arousal experienced when 
 
56 Id. at 3.  
57 Id. at 10. 
58 Doc. 31-2 at 8–9. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 23 of 3524 attempting to fantasize about actual c ontact with the person in the slide.”59  Dr. Athey found that 
Huseth’s “arousal by certain par tial aspects of child pornographic im ages does not equate to his 
response to ‘real’ people”; rather, “it is an attraction to a visual  depiction of his own experience 
of the onset of sexual arousal in  childhood and the privacy of his early experience of it, not an 
attraction to or arousal by  a female of that age.”60  Dr. Athey also noted that Huseth’s romantic 
relationships have all been with  adult women, and as Huseth has aged, so have the ages of the 
adult women he has pursued.  This is consistent  with Ms. Dettmer’s opinion that “Erik does not 
have any sexual interest  in underage females.”61   
 When Dr. Spence and Dr. Imhof interviewed Hu seth, he told them that when he viewed 
pornography and masturbated, he did not usually think about having sex with the person on the 
screen: “It’s kind of weird.  Like when I -- my computer it’s really removed.”62  He described 
child pornography as “just kind of an extreme form  of porn because I wouldn’t really do it in real 
life. . . .  [O]n a computer screen it kind of seems good, but if I imagined  myself doing that in 
real life, it’s pretty bizarre.”63  Huseth described having fantas ies sometimes about the “teenage 
girls” he viewed, but “it would be a little freaky with the like children because it’s just too much 
with the kids.  Like it’s off-put ting to think about in real life.”64  Huseth said he never had sexual 
fantasies about children in real life.  He also said that he ha d no sexual attraction to his former 
girlfriend’s six-year-old daughter , despite being around the child fo r several days at a time and 
sometimes babysitting while the mother was at work  during the two to three months that he dated 
 
59 Id. at 9. 
60 Id. 
61 Doc. 31-3 at 3. 
62 Huseth Ex. A at 44. 
63 Id. at 45. 
64 Id. at 45-46. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 24 of 3525 the mother.  Huseth also disc laimed feeling more comforta ble around children or wanting 
friendships with children.  Dr. Spence and Dr. Imhof gave great weight to  Huseth’s description of his attraction to 
child pornography and concluded that  he was sexually attracted to children.  But Huseth actually 
said he would look at child pornography because he “just liked what it looked like physically.”
65  
It was Dr. Imhof who then suggested to Huseth that he downloaded the ima ge “if [he] found that 
individual  attractive.”66  But Huseth’s words could just as  easily be interpreted as liking the 
scene, rather than being attracted to  the individual child in the scene.  
 As noted above, Dr. Athey concluded that wh atever interest Huseth showed in child 
pornography was not by virtue of an y sexual interest in children; ra ther, Huseth was attracted to 
images that resonated with his ea rliest experience of sexual arous al in childhood.  Dr. Athey thus 
ruled out Pedophilic Disorder.  Th e Court gives more weight to Dr. Athey’s assessment because 
he actually administered the test to Huseth.   
 The Court heard a battle of the experts on a nother related issue.  Dr. Loftin opined that 
Huseth’s “mindblindness,” which is a symp tom of ASD, “can produce a phenomenon of 
counterfeit deviance , in which he may appear to  fit a particular profile of deviant behavior (i.e., 
paraphilia) when, in fact, he is  displaying symptoms of ASD.”67  Dr. Spence challenged Dr. 
Loftin’s opinion, pointing to  research that limits th e differential diagnosi s of counterfeit deviance 
 
65 Id. at 38.  
66 Id. at 39 (emphasis added).   
67 Doc. 31-1 at 15; see also Denise C. Kellaher, Sexual Behavior and Autism Spectrum Disorders: an 
Update and Discussion , 17 Current Psychiatry Reps. 25 (2015) (“Counterfeit deviance characterizes sexual behavior 
that may appear to arise from a paraphilia but instead it or iginates from a lack of sexual knowledge and experience 
and from poor social skills.”). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 25 of 3526 to prisoners or mental patients who contrive sexually deviant behavior for attention-seeking 
purposes.  The Court need not resolve this difference of opinion.  To be sure, the Court gives more credence to Dr. Athey’s opinion that Huseth does not 
have Pedophilic Disorder.  But for purposes of  evaluating the important consideration of 
protecting the public from further crimes, the Court finds more  persuasive that Dr. Loftin, Dr. 
Athey, Dr. Imhof, and Dr. Spence all agree that  a diagnosis of Pedoph ilic Disorder is not 
predictive of the likelihood of recidivism.  And th ere is no dispute that fo r Huseth—convicted of 
non-production possession of chil d pornography, with no evidence of sexual contact with 
children––the likelihood of re cidivism is very low. 
 Indeed, the Sentencing Commission’s latest  child pornography report includes statistics 
on this very question.
68  The Sentencing Commission analyzed known recidivism rates of federal 
non-production child pornography offenders who had either distributed, received, or possessed 
child pornography.  The study track ed for a three-year period a ll such offenders who were 
released from prison or placed on probation in 2015.69  Known recidivism was defined as any of 
the following arrest events: an arrest that led to a felony or misdemeanor qualifying conviction; 
an arrest that led to no eviden ce of acquittal or dismissal; or a reported technical  violation of 
conditions of probation or supe rvised release that led to  an arrest or revocation.70  The study 
analyzed “overall recidivism” and “sexual recidivism” rates (cont act or no-contact sex 
offenses).71   
 
68 See U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, supra note 1.  
69 Id. at 62–63. 
70 Id. at 63.  
71 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 26 of 3527  The study found an overall recidivism rate  of 27.6% among the non-production child 
pornography offenders tracked: 16% were arrested for a crime that was not a sex offense or 
related to their status as a se x offender; the sexual recidivism rate was 4.3%, with only 1.3% of 
offenders arrested for a contact sex offense; and 7.3% of offenders  were arrested or had their 
term of supervised releas e revoked for failing to regi ster as a sex offender.72  Importantly, this 
study did not distinguish between th ose convicted of distribution, r eceipt, or posse ssion, the latter 
of which carries a lower base offe nse level.  This low recidivism rate comports with the expert 
testimony in this case.   The Court thus concludes that Huseth does not have Pedophilic Disord er, but even if he 
does, the likelihood of recidivism is exceedingly low.  Furthermore, as discussed below, the 
conditions the Court imposes for Huseth’s term  of supervision incl ude a treatment plan 
recommended by Dr. Imhof and Dr. Spence, base d on their opinion that Huseth has Pedophilic 
Disorder.  
F. Avoid Unwarranted Sentencing Disparities 
 It is not unusual for courts  to vary downward from the applicable Guidelines range in 
sentencing defendants like Huset h, who are convicted of non-pr oduction possession of child 
pornography.  The Sentencing Commission reports that in FY 2019, less than one-third of 
offenders sentenced for non-production child pornogr aphy offenses received  a sentence within 
the Guidelines range; the majority  (59%) received a downward variance.
73   
And for defendants like Huseth, who were  convicted of non-production possession of 
child pornography, 81.5% received a downward variance in FY 2019.74  The majority of 
 
72 Id. at 65.  
73 Id. at 5.  
74 Id. at 55. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 27 of 3528 defendants convicted of non-produc tion possession of child pornogr aphy had a Guidelines range 
of 78 to 97 months, and the average sentence  imposed was 47 months, although there were 
considerable differences in how these similarly situated defendants were sentenced.75  For non-
production possession offenders who received a two-level enhancement for distribution, the 
majority had a Guidelines range of 97 to 121 months, and the average sentence imposed was 57 
months, although there were again considerable differences in how these similarly situated 
possession offenders were sentenced.76 
 To be sure, 99% of defendants convicte d of non-production distribution, receipt, or 
possession of child pornography receiv ed a prison sentence in FY 2019.77  But, noting that most 
of these defendants received a downward varian ce, the Sentencing Commission explained that 
“the long[-]term trend sh ows that most courts believe § 2G 2.2 is generally too severe and does 
not appropriately measure offender culpability in the typical  non-production child pornography 
case.”78  And although 99% of offend ers in all non-production categories receive a prison 
sentence, obviously 1% do not rece ive a custodial sentence.  In this Court’s view, despite the 
temptation to vary downward but  still impose a prison sentence given that statistic, an 
intellectually honest analysis comp els a noncustodial sentence in th is case.  As it must, the Court 
has considered all the § 3553(a) factors, includi ng the history and characteristics of Huseth, 
while not giving undue weight to  that factor alone.   
 The parties have briefed these issues extens ively, including citati ons to numerous child 
pornography cases to either justify a vari ance or a Guidelines sentence.  But in United States v. 
 
75 Id. at 54. 
76 Id. at 57. 
77 Id. at 20.  
78 Id. at 22. (emphasis added). Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 28 of 3529 Booker ,79 the Supreme Court counseled that under the advisory Guidelines system, courts should 
“continue to move sentencing in Congress’ pr eferred direction, helping to avoid excessive 
sentencing disparities while maintaining flexibil ity sufficient to individualize sentences where 
necessary.”80  While statistics are inform ative and enlightening, in the final analysis, the Court is 
to fashion a sentence for the in dividual defendant that duly co nsiders all the § 3553(a) factors, 
including those that are unique to the individual defendant.   
 The Court declines to consider the senten ces in the many cases ci ted by the parties for 
any purpose other than a recognition that ther e are sentencing disparities for defendants 
convicted of non-production child po rnography cases.  In the legion of cases cited by the parties, 
there were differences in the na ture and circumstances of the o ffense, such as sexual contact, 
non-sexual contact, possession, distribution, and/or receipt.  Ther e were differences in the history 
and characteristics of the defe ndant, and differences across ot her § 3553(a) factors, including 
whether any sentencing disparity was warranted.  It is also clear that in many of those cases, the 
judge’s decision was not based on an extensive record of the defendant’s life-long cognitive 
impairments, or an extensive record of expert an alysis and opinions that  this Court enjoys.  
G. Just Punishment and the Need to Provide Training, Care, or Treatment  
 Just punishment necessarily considers bot h the seriousness of the offense and what 
sentence would provide just punish ment to this individual defendant .  The experts all agree that 
Huseth is uniquely vulnerable in a prison popul ation, given his deficits in social adaptive 
functioning and social immaturit y.  One researcher has noted th at while estimates vary by study, 
 
79 543 U.S. 220 (2005). 
80 Id. at 264–265. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 29 of 3530 reported instances of bullying among individuals with ASD in  the general prison population 
range from 29% to 94%.81 
 As has been the case in his community and th roughout his life, Huseth is vulnerable to 
being manipulated and used by others.  He opera tes as an eight-year-old in many aspects of 
social adaptation and maturity.  This, coupled  with his sex offende r conviction, makes him 
particularly vulnerable in a prison setting.  This factor is not dete rminative, nor should it be.  But 
it is a factor the Court necessarily considers.  With a sex offender conviction, Huseth is in eligible for sentencing to a minimum-security 
facility.
82  While the Court can recommend that th is sex offender provision be waived, the 
Bureau of Prisons (“BOP”) is under no obligation to  waive it.  The Court th us considers that if 
incarcerated, Huseth may be desi gnated to a medium-s ecurity facility wh ere the population may 
render him more vulnerable than in a minimum-security facility.   
 Ms. Dettmer and the other experts agree that  Huseth needs treatment.  Where they differ 
is whether he can receive adequate treatment  through BOP programming.  Dr. Imhof has vast 
experience with the BOP programming and opine d that Huseth can receive adequate sex 
offender treatment there.  Dr. Im hof and Dr. Spence pointed to th e Skills Program offered by the 
BOP, which helps developmentally  disabled persons survive in  the difficult prison culture, 
including those with ASD.  The Skills Program, however, has not been adapted to those with 
ASD and their unique needs.  And there is no th erapy specific to ASD available in the BOP.  
 
81 Gary Mesibov & Melissa Sreckovic, Child and Juvenile Pornography and Autism Spectrum Disorder , in 
Caught in the Web of the Criminal Justice System: Autis m, Other Developmental Disabilities, and Non-Contact Sex 
Offenses 64, 70–71 (Lawrence A. Dubin & Emily Horowitz eds., 2017). 
82 See BOP Program Stat ement 5100.08. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 30 of 3531  Ms. Dettmer, with the benefit of havi ng treated Huseth for his ASD since 2013, 
recommends that Huseth continue to work with a mental health professi onal who specializes in 
ASD, as his ASD causes him severe, debilitating a nxiety, and his difficulty  in interacting with 
others causes him to struggle w ith activities of daily living.  Ms. Dettmer opines that Huseth 
needs “intervention unlike typical sex offender’s rehabilitation progr ams.  He needs to be offered 
therapy consisting of psychosexual education that informs in a clea r, concrete fashion what the 
‘rules’ are for safe, and legal se xual interaction as well as what specific sexual interactions to 
avoid.”83  This is borne out by his in appropriate romantic relations hip in the early months of 
2018 with a mother of a six-yea r-old daughter.  Ms. Dettmer furt her opines that Huseth also 
needs “ongoing mental health c ounseling separate from the psychosexual education in order to 
maintain stability of his anxiety.”84  
 Dr. Loftin agrees that Huseth would not benefit from the usual sexual offender 
rehabilitation program.85  Instead, he needs “instruction in sexuality from someone specialized in 
teaching people with ASD, along with increase d opportunities for social skill development and 
interaction.”86  Dr. Loftin opines that a trained mental health pr ofessional can provide the 
concrete, explicit instruction Hu seth needs on how to avoid illeg al websites and images.  Dr. 
Loftin further opines that Huseth needs continue d individual therapy to address social-emotional 
deficits, with a focus on “dev elopment of perspective taki ng and theory of mind skills.”87 
 
83 Doc. 31-3 at 4.  
84 Id. 
85 Doc. 31-1 at 16.  
86 Id. 
87 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 31 of 3532  In fact, the universal view among the experts is that Huseth would benefit most from 
treatment, and that any risk of recidivism can be more appropri ately addressed through treatment 
than incarceration.  Indeed, the special c onditions of supervisi on recommended in the 
Presentence Investigation Report address these n eeds in a manner the medi cal professionals find 
acceptable and appropriate.  These conditions in clude a computer and internet monitoring 
program that will preclude Huseth’s access to ad ult or child pornography or media that would 
allow interaction with those engage d in such activities.  The condi tions also include participation 
in mental health treatment, which may in clude psychological couns eling and prescribed 
medication, and a condition allowing the U.S. Pr obation Office to search Huseth’s person, house, 
residence, vehicles, place of em ployment or business, and any pr operty under his control, when 
based upon reasonable suspicion.    And, consistent with the experts’ recomme ndations, the Court will modify the special 
condition in paragraph 146 of the Presenten ce Investigation Report to read: “You must 
participate in therapy targeted at ASD, such as  cognitive-behavioral, therapist-led therapy,” as 
described in Dr. Loftin’s report.  The conditions of supervision typically incl ude obtaining “a current psychosexual and/or 
mental health evaluation” and, “if recommended  by any such evaluation,”  participating “in a 
mental health treatment program and/or sex offe nder treatment program.”
88  If referred to a sex 
offender treatment program, the offender is requir ed to comply with any and all monitoring and 
evaluation modalities, including polygraph and visual reaction testing.  But the Court will 
modify this condition.   
 
88 Doc. 20 ¶ 146. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 32 of 3533  At Huseth’s request, Bruce Cappo, Ph.D., AB PP, a licensed psychologist with Clinical 
Associates, P.A. (“Clinical A ssociates”) submitted a letter dated June 3, 2021, detailing his 
group’s ability to provide treatment for Huseth in accordance with the treatment 
recommendations of Dr . Imhof and Dr. Spence.89  Dr. Cappo stated that he had reviewed Dr. 
Imhof’s and Dr. Spence’s joint report, understood that they had diagnosed Huseth with 
Pedophilic Disorder, Non-Exclusive Type, Sexually At tracted to Females, as well as Unspecified 
Depressive Disorder, and that Huseth also had a historical diagnosis of ASD.  Dr. Cappo’s letter 
detailed each of their recommendations and concl uded that Clinical Associ ates can provide such 
a treatment program.  Notably, Clinical Associ ates has been offering sex offender treatment 
services for 29 years, an d it has “a deep bench of providers who hold clinical status with the 
Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers (ATSA).”90  Its providers have presented at 
ATSA international conferences and published in the ATSA journal.  Clinical Associates has 
also held contracts with the U.S. Probation and Pa role Offices as well as the BOP to provide sex 
offender evaluation and treatment fo r more than 20 years.  Clinical Associates has treated more 
than 1,500 sex offenders since 2010, created a transitional treatment program for sexual predators in Kansas, and provided in-facility and outpatient evalua tion and treatment services for 
the State of Kansas for 9 years.
91  
 Dr. Imhof testified that Dr . Cappo’s letter merely regurgi tates his recommendations and 
provides no specific treatment plan or assurance to him that it can  deliver treatment based on his 
recommendations.  But the fact that Dr. Imhof, who does not prac tice in Kansas, is unfamiliar 
with Clinical Associates and its providers’ l ong record of treating federal and Kansas sex 
 
89 Huseth Ex. B; Gov. Ex. 50 at 10–11.  
90 Huseth Ex. B. 
91 Id. Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 33 of 3534 offenders does not warrant this Court dismissing their expertise or stated ability to provide a 
treatment plan that comports with Huseth’s  needs and the expert s’ recommendations.  
 Further, the proposed treatment plan is based on Dr. Spence’s and Dr. Imhof’s opinion 
that Huseth has Pedophilic Disorder , despite the contrary opinions of  the other experts.  In that 
sense, the proposed treatment plan, which the Court will adopt and incorporate into the 
conditions of probation, is more th an adequate to address the need  for therapeutic treatment, the 
low risk of recidivism, and th e need to protect the public fro m Huseth’s further crimes.  
H. Restitution  
 The parties have stipulated and agreed to the identity of the victims and the amount of 
restitution to be paid to each one of them.  So, this is not an issue at sentencing.  
III. Conclusion  The Supreme Court has firmly instructed that the Sentencing Guidelines are advisory and 
that the sentencing court “may not presume that  the Guidelines range is reasonable” but “must 
make an individualized assessme nt based on the facts presented.”
92  The court must “frame[] its 
final determination in line w ith §3553(a)’s overarching instru ction to ‘impose a sentence 
sufficient, but not greater than necessary’ to  accomplish the sentencing goals advanced in  
§ 3553(a)(2).”93  This Court has considered all of th e factors it must cons ider under section  
§ 3553(a).  While this Court has seriously consid ered the history and ch aracteristics of this 
defendant, as it must, this Court ha s not focused on this factor excl usively nor failed to seriously 
consider all of the § 3553(a) fact ors.  And the Court finds that a downward variance to a sentence 
 
92 Gall v. United States , 552 U.S. 38, 50 (2007) (citing Rita v. United States , 551 U.S. 338, 351 (2007)).   
93 Kimbrough v. United States , 552 U.S. 85, 111 (2007).  Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 34 of 3535 of probation is warranted.  The Court will ente rtain any final arguments of counsel, hear from 
Huseth, and impose a final senten ce at the sentencing hearing. 
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED  BY THE COURT that Defendant Erik. M. Huseth’s 
Motion for Downard Variance (Doc. 31) is granted .  The Court will be in contact with the 
parties forthwith to schedule a sentencing date.   IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  Dated: October 22, 2021 
 S/ Julie A. Robinson 
JULIE A. ROBINSON CHIEF UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE 
 Case 2:18-cr-20027-JAR-ADM     Document 73     Filed 10/22/21     Page 35 of 35IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  :  CRIMINAL ACTION 
    : 
 v.   : 
    :  
MICHAEL SHORE   :  NO. 17-502 
 
MEMORANDUM OPINION 
 
Savage, J.             Ju ly 7, 2020  
 
 The defendant  Michael Shore, who has  Autism Spectrum D isorder (“ASD”),  has 
moved to bar application of the 15 -year mandatory minimum sentence and for a variance 
from the sentencing guideline of life imprisonment on his conviction of  three counts of 
manufacturing  child pornography in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§  2251(a).  He argues that 
imposition of the mandatory 15- year sentence, as applied to him, violates the Eighth 
Amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual  punishment.1  He co ntends  that taking 
into consideration his “unique psychological and emotional history,”  the 15-year sentence 
is grossly disproportionate to the offenses.  
 The government  opposes the motion, citing well established precedent that 
counsels against sustaining a challenge to a statutory mandatory minimum sentence.  It 
argues that such a challenge is reserved only for the extraordinary  case and this case is 
not one of them .  The essence of the government’s  position  is that the 15- year sentence 
is not “grossly disproportionate” to the manufacturing offense.  
 
1 He does not challenge the mandatory  minimum ten- year and five- year sentences on other counts.  Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 1 of 162 
  The mandatory 15- year sentence in Shore’s case  is harsh and does not serve all 
penological goals.   Taking into consideration his ASD and its role in the of fense conduct , 
the sentence raises an inference of gross disproportionality  between the gravity of the 
offense and the severity of the sentence.  N evertheless, when looking at sentences in this 
district and other districts for the same offenses by defendants with and without mental 
conditions, a 15- year sentence in this case is not unusual.  Therefore, because it does 
not violate the Eighth Amendment, we must deny the motion to disregard the legislatively 
mandated 15- year se ntence.  
 Although the mandatory sentence must be imposed, the life sentence under the 
Sentencing Guidelines need not.  Consideration of the constellation of the factors set forth 
in 18 U.S.C. § 3553 , without emphasis on any one factor to  the exclusion of others , merits 
a variance.  Thus, to the extent the defendant’s motion seeks a variance, we shall grant 
it. 
The Offense Conduct  
 Shore entered an open guilty plea to five counts of use of an interstate commerce 
facility to entice a minor to engage in sexual conduct in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 2422(b), 
three counts of manufacturing and attempt ing to manufacture child pornography in 
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 2251(a), one count of distribution of child pornography in violation 
of 18 U.S.C. § 2252(a)(2) , and one count of possession of child pornography in violation 
of 18 U.S.C. § 2252(a)(4)(B).  The charges arose out of his interactions with four minors . 
 For purposes of addressing the specific challenge to the 15- year mandatory 
minimum  sentence, we recite o nly the facts  relating to the manufacturing offenses.  It is 
that conduct that must be examined to perform the proportionality analysis.   Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 2 of 163 
  Shore, 33 years old at the time, communicated with a 12- year old minor via 
Facebook , cell phone  and text messaging.  The minor’s mother, upon discovering  the 
communications, directed him to stop.  Despite the warning that her daughter was only 
12, Shore continued to communicate with her by private, direct messaging.  The sexually  
graphic messages requested nu de photos and solicited sex.  Shore sought photos of her  
in the shower masturbating.  
 Shore engaged in similar sexually graphic communications with two other young 
girls, 14 and 16 years old.  In these instances, Shore expressed his desire to have sex 
with them.  The 14- year old responded to his requests by sending him photos of her naked  
and topless.  The 16- year old, who turned 17 during the time of the communications, sent 
five photos depicting her nude  or in a sports bra and underwear.  Shore transmitted those 
photos to a woman in Chicago.   
Proportionality Analysis  
 The Eighth Amendment  “does not require strict  proportionality between crime and 
sentence. ”  Ewing v. California , 538 U.S. 11, 23 (2003).  “It forbids only extreme sentences 
that are ‘grossly disproportionate’ to the crime.”  Id .   
 A severe sentence by itself is not unconstitutional.  Harmelin v Michigan, 501 U.S . 
957, 994 (1991) ( Kennedy , J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  In other 
words, the mere length of a sentence, no matter how long, does not justify invalidating a 
legislatively mandated  sentence.  Consequently, a  successful proportionality challenge 
to a mandatory sentence is “exceedingly rare .”  Hut ts v. Davis , 454 U.S. 370, 374 (1982)  
(per curiam).  Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 3 of 164 
  Before conducting the analysis, we recognize that we must grant substantial 
deference to Congress in determining the types and limits of punishment.  Solem  v. Helm , 
463 U.S. 277, 290 n.16  (1983) .  At the same time, when determining whether a sentence 
violates the Eighth Amendment, courts may consider “the particular defendant and 
particular crime at issue.”  Graham  v. Florida, 560 U.S. 48, 87 (2010) (Roberts, C.J., 
concurring in judgment).  
 The Supreme Court established the framework for analyzing  an Eighth 
Amendment proportionality challenge in Ewing v. California , 538 U.S. 11, and Solem v. 
Helm , 463 U.S. 277.  The Third Circuit explicated the analysis in United States v. 
MacEwan, 445 F.3d 237 (3d Cir. 2006), when it rejected a proportionality challenge to the 
same 15- year mandatory minimum sentence provision Shore attacks.  
 The proportionality analysis  consists of three steps.  First, the court determines 
whether a comparison between the gravity of the offense  and the severity of the sentence 
gives rise to “an inference of gross disproportionality .”  If it does not, the inquiry ends.  If 
it does, the court proceeds  to the second and third steps.  At the second and third steps, 
the court compares the defendant’s sentence to sentences imposed on other offenders 
convicted of the same crime in the same jurisdiction (the intrajurisdictional inquiry)  and 
those imposed for the same offenses in other jurisdictions  (the interjurisdictional inquiry ).  
Solem , 463 U.S. at 290- 292; MacEwan , 445 F.3d at 247.   Only  if the intrajurisdictional 
and the  interjurisdictional  comparisons confirm the inference that the sentence is grossly 
disproportionate may a court find that it  violates the Eighth Amendment.  
  Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 4 of 165 
 Gravity of the Offense  
 In evaluating the gravity of the offense, we consider “ the harm caused or 
threatened to the victim or society and the culpability of the [defendant].”  See Solem , 463 
U.S. at 292 .  In examining the defendant’s culpability, we consider his intent and motive.  
Id. at 293.  We also consider his criminal history.  Rummell , 445 U.S. at 276.  
 Shore’s conduct constituting manufacturing was abhorrent.  He solicited young  
teenagers , 12 and 14  years old, to participate in sharing sexually charged photos he 
requested.  He encouraged them to expose themselves and solicited  sexual engagement.   
He requested a 12- year old sixth grader to send him photos of her nude and in her 
underwear.  She responded, sending him a photo of herself in a sports bra and a towel 
around her waist.  He later asked for photos of her masturbating in the shower.  Another 
victim, a 14 -year old, sent him photos of her topless and nude as requested.  
 These photos were for his own  purpose .  He was not creating the  images for 
dissemination or profit.  He was not in the business of child pornography.  
 No one questions that child pornography, especially its manufacture, is a serious 
crime that preys on the most vulnerable victims who bear the scars of exploitation for  
years and in many cases forever. Children are harmed physically, emotionally, and 
mentally, causing them difficulties in adjusting normally.  The insult lives on in perpetual 
circulation through the Internet.  
 Congress determined that severe penalties were needed because  it found that 
child pornography is a “multimillion dollar industry” run from a “nationwide network of 
individuals” who “openly advertise their desire to exploit children and to traffic in child 
pornography.”  Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 5 of 166 
 248, 120 Stat. 587, 623.   The manufacturing penalty is aimed at those who prey upon 
children for their own greed.  It is not to penalize the mentally challenged who have no 
real appreciation of their offense and who l ive in a fantasy world.  
 Shore does not fit the profile of the offender Congress targeted for such a severe 
sentence.  He was not manufacturing child  pornography for distributi on or profit .  To apply 
the mandatory minimum mechanically  without distinguishing between the two types of 
offenders – the callous and manipulative profiteer on the one hand, and the unwitting 
impaired person on the other –  would result in a disparity.  
 The gravity of the offense is not measured solely by the com munity’s moral outrage  
or the impact on the victim.   The defendant’s culpability must be included.  We cannot 
assess the gravity of the offense without looking at the offender’s state of mind and his 
mental state .  The criminal law has always considered the actors’ mens rea when  grading 
offenses  for sentencing purposes .  For example, murder, the most heinous  and serious 
offense, is classified by degrees that reflect the offender’s state of  mind.   Other crimes 
are likewise graded.  
 In his concurring opinion in Graham , Chief Justice Roberts identified the offender’s 
state of mind as an essential component of the analysis.  Explaining the process, he 
wrote, “[t]his [‘narrow proportionality’] analysis can consider a particular offender’ s menta l 
state and motive in committing the crime, th e actual harm caused to his victim or to society 
by his conduct, and any prior criminal history.”  Graham , 560 U.S. at 88.  
 Indeed, considering the offender’s state of mind as affecting  his culpability is what 
led the Supreme Cour t to declare as a violation of the Eighth Amendment sentenc ing a 
juvenile  to death for murder, Roper v. Simmons , 543 U.S. 551 (2005) , a mentally disabled Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 6 of 167 
 defendant to death, Atkins v. Virginia , 536 U.S. 304 (2002), and a juvenile t o life without 
parole for a non- capital crime .  Graham v. Florida, 560 U.S. 48 (2010).   Granted the 
mandatory 15- year sentence for manufacturing child pornography is not  comparable to 
the ultimate penalty of death or a life sentence.  But , the same factors bearing on the 
juvenile’s mental development and appreciation of his wrongdoing are present in the case 
of a defendant with ASD.  
 Shore, like others with ASD, shares the same characteristics with juveniles whom 
the Supreme Court has found are “constitutionally different from adults for purposes of 
sentencing.”  Miller v. Alabama , 567 U.S. 460, 471 (20 12). These include immaturity, 
impulsivity, and failure to appreciate the risks and consequences of their actions.  The 
same analysis applies here.  
 Shore’s ASD is a component of the culpability analysis.  It bears on his perspective 
and appreciation of the wrongfulness of his offense con duct.  It goes to his intent.   Thus, 
we look at how ASD played a role in Shore’s conduct.  
 Autism is a neuro- developmental disability involving the brain.  It is characterized 
by the presence of narrow, repetitive behavior and differences and difficulties in social 
interaction, communication, and adjusting to change.  A person suffering from ASD is 
neurologically impaired in his ability to appreciate the unacceptability of his conduct or to 
intuit why this conduct is unacceptable.  Because of his difficulty observing social norms, 
an ASD individual may engage in socially disapproved or unacceptable behavior, with no 
consciousness of wrongdoing or a  real sense of how his behavior is viewed by others.  
 ASD is defined in the DSM -V as typified by ex treme social and emotional 
immaturity, the inability to read others or respond appropriately in social settings, lack of Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 7 of 168 
 intuitive awareness of social/moral/legal constraints, and intense and narrowly directed 
repetitive activities.   AM. PSYCHIATRIC ASS’N DIAGNOSTIC AND STATISTICAL MANUAL OF 
MENTAL DISORDERS  (DSM -V) 50 (5th ed. 2013) .  These features combine to create a risk 
of offensive behavior towards others without any offensive purpose.   
 Because they are typically isolated from their peers of the sam e age, persons with 
ASD have limited socio -sexual understanding.  They do not recognize sexual  boundaries.  
They are naïve and socially awkward.  T hey have a desire to “fit in”.  Yet, when they do, 
they fail to perceive and appreciate the feelings of other s, and they engage in 
inappropriate behavior.  They are not antisocial, they are asocial.  
 “Much of the deviant or sexual offending behavior exhibited among those with ASD 
is often a manifestation of their ASD symptoms, and not malice.”  M. C. Mogavero, Autism, 
Sexual Offending, and the Criminal Justice System , J. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES & 
OFFENDING BEHAV . 116-126 (2016) .  How the lack of  sociosexual understanding  leads to 
inappropriate sexual behavior has been described as follows:  
We do recognize that problems with sexual expression and 
experiences can lead to a person with Asperger' s syndrome 
being charged with a sexual offence. The charges tend to 
be for sexually inappropriate behaviour rather than 
sexually abusive or sexually vi olent behaviour (Ray, Marks 
and Bray -Garretson 2004). The person may have difficulty 
distinguishing between kindness and attraction, and 
assume a friendly act was an indication of romantic or 
sexual attraction. This can lead to a crush or infatuation 
with the person. Due to problems with Theory of Mind 
abilities and reading social cues, the person with 
Asperger's syndrome assumes that the degree of adulation 
is reciprocal, and signs of rejection or annoyance are not 
recognized. The person may be charged wit h offences 
related to stalking.  
 
The focus or expression of sexual pleasure can also be of 
concern. For example, the person with Asperger's Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 8 of 169 
 syndrome may not have had the usual social, sensual and 
sexual experiences of typical adolescents, and may 
develop s exually arousing fantasies involving objects, 
clothing, children or animals . The technical term is 
paraphilia. Acting out some paraphilias is illegal. The 
person with Asperger's syndrome may have been sexually 
abused and subsequently repeat the offence wit h others, 
assuming such sexual behaviour is acceptable, or as an 
attempt to understand why someone would engage in, and 
appear to enjoy, such behaviour . 
 
A curiosity and confusion regarding sexuality can lead to 
the desire for more information and the development of a 
solitary and clandestine special interest in pornography. 
There can then be the assumption that the sexual 
behaviour seen in films and descri bed in magazines is a 
script for a first date . When certain suggestions are made, 
the person can be labeled a pervert or sexual deviant, and 
face the possibility of charges of sexual assault. There has 
been the suggestion that having Asperger's syndrome 
could be a factor in at least one case of sexual serial 
homicide (Silva, Ferrari and Leong 2002). Thus, I strongly 
advocate guidance in sexuality for adolescents and adults 
with Asperger's syndrome, using the programs designed 
by specialists in Asperger's syndrome (Henault 2005), and 
appropriate modifications for treatment programs for 
sexual offenders (Ray et al. 2004).  
 
TONY ATWOOD , THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO ASPERGER 'S SYNDROME  336 (Jessica 
Kingsley  ed., 2007) . 
 "Sexual  curiosity and drive  (along  with a lack of appropriate channels  for sexual  
expression and interaction)  can lead individuals  with AS to explore websites  with child  
pornography  without  understanding the  criminal and predatory context."   Michael D. 
Powers & James M. Loomis,  Asperger Syndrome in Adolescence and Adulthood , in 
ASPERGER SYNDROME : ASSESSING AND TREATING HIGH-FUNCTIONING AUTISM SPECTRUM 
DISORDERS  331, 339 (James C. McPartland et al eds., 2d ed. 2006).  In other words, they 
have no appreciation of the seriousness or gravity of their transgressions.  Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 9 of 1610 
  Shore’s ASD contributed to his offense conduct. Dr.  Shawn Channel , a staff 
psychologist at Federal Medical Center, D evens , and Dr.  Elliot Atkins , a clinical 
psychologist who tested and evaluated Shore , concluded that his ASD played a role in 
his behavior .2    Noting that ASD’s role was “ very complicated” , Dr. Channel  testified, “I 
believe [his ASD] contributed to his offense conduct.”3  He testifi ed that Shore’s  ASD 
impaired his understanding of the wrongfulness of his behavior.4   
 Dr. Atkins  opined that “Michael’s Autism  Spectrum Disorder  has contributed to his 
commission of the instant  offenses in  a manner  that clearly differentiates him from those  
individuals that both Congress  and the Sentencing Commission  had in mind when the 
Sentencing Guidelines  were crafted.”5 Dr. Atkins explained that Shore suffers from 
“severe deficits in social functioning and does n’t fully appreciate the impact  of his behavior 
on others.”6  He lacked the ability to understand that his actions  were harmful to others.  
“He had very little or no appreciation of the harm he was doing.”7 
 Shore, who is full of self -doubt and sees himsel f as socially alienated, has 
characteristic traits of ASD.  He has poor judgment skills.  He demonstrates  a lack of 
remorse and empathy.8  He is socially immature.  Testing revealed a “profound immaturity 
 
2 Transcript of Proceedings at 13, 68, United States v. Shore, No. 17- 502 (E.D. Pa. July 31, 2018)  (“Tr.”); 
Letter from Elliot L. Atkins, Ed. D., P.A., to Burton A. Rose, Esquire  7 (Sept. 20, 2017) (“Atkins  Rpt.”) (on 
file with court).  
3 Tr. at 97- 98. 
4 Id. at 99.  
5 Tr. at 13; Atkins Rpt. 7.  
6 Id.  
7 Tr. at 11.  
8 Id. at 52.  Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 10 of 1611 
 and dependency” that led him to create his own inner world .9  Deficits in socio -emotional  
reciprocity result in his over interpreting the degree of significance of a relationship .10  He 
functions  socially  and emotionally at the level of an adolescent.11  “He is still functioning 
much like a teenager himself and interacting  like a  young  teenager  instead of someone 
his own age. ”12   
 When the experts say an ASD individual lacks empathy, they  do not mean he is 
callous, sadistic or sociopathic.  It means he has extreme difficulty viewing the world 
through the eyes of others.  He does not notice when others suffer or he misunderstands  
others’ feelings.   GARY B. MESIBOV ET AL ., UNDERSTANDING ASPERGER SYNDROME AND HIGH 
FUNCTIONING AUTISM  (2001).  Although an ASD individual may know it is wrong to induce 
children to engage in sexual behavior, he does not appreciate its impact or its 
consequences.  
 Having found that Shore’s culpability in light of his ASD mitigates the gravity of the 
offense, we turn t o the severity of the sentence.  Then , we must determine whether there 
is a “gross imbalance”.  
Severity of the Sentence 
 The severity of  a sentence is not based solely on the length of years.  It must  take 
into consideration the penological goals of sentencing – retribution, deterrence, 
incapacitation, and rehabilitation.   Graham , 560 U.S.  at 71.  Of course, it  balances these 
 
9 Atkins Rpt. 6.  
10 Tr. at 64.  
11 Atkins Rpt. at 8.  
12 Tr. at 27- 28. Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 11 of 1612 
 goals in light of the defendant’s unique and individualized characteristics and 
circumstances which we have already discussed.    
 Retribution is a legitimate basis for  punishment.  But , the sentence must  be 
“directly related to the personal culpability” of the defendant .  Id. (quoting Tison v. Arizona , 
381 U.S. 137 (1987)).  We have already considered Shore’s  culpability as it was impacted 
by his ASD.  He was not  as culpable as one without ASD or a defendant who  profits fro m 
the exploitation of children.  Nonetheless, he deserves punishment for doing what he 
knew was wrong even though he did not appreciate the  consequences of his actions , 
including  the effects on the young children.  But, a 15-year sentence is not necessary to 
satisfy the need for retribution, especially when considered with the other penological  
goals.  
 Deterrence  demands a substantial sentence.  It  is necessary to deter others from 
manufacturing child pornography .  The mandatory 10- year sentence, which Shore does 
not challenge, will  serve as a sufficient deterrent.  Can anyone predict that a person 
committing this type offense would consider not doing it because there was a potential 
sentence of five or ten years  rather than 15 years ?  Where is the decisive  point ?  Just 
what sentence is a sufficient deterrent  is an open question.  T he sentence must be 
significant enough to act as a deterrent  and not more than sufficient to accomplish this 
goal.   The mandatory 10 -year sentence Shore does not challenge is sufficient deterrence.  
 Incapacitation is aimed at preventing recidivism.  As long as  the offender is inclined 
to recommit the same offenses, he must  be confined.  This goal intersects with  the goal 
of rehabilitation.  If an offender cannot be rehabilitated, his incapacitation is necessary to 
prevent recidivism .  On the other hand, if he is capable of  rehabilitation, his sentence Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 12 of 1613 
 should be limited to the time  sufficient  to accomplish  that goal, taking into consideration 
the other penological goals.  
 Shore can be  rehabilitated.  There  is no doubt that he would  benefit from treatment 
that would reduce the risk of recidivism.  There  are two types of treatment that would be 
beneficial.  First, there  is specific sexual offender treatment that typically lasts between 
sixteen  and eighteen months.  The second is treatment  addressing his AS D symptoms .  
It entails treatment for social and emotional  manifestations of his  ASD.13  The treatment 
to address his thinking and judgment problems, his impulsivity and social problems  could 
last several years.  
 With successful treatment , Shore could be “reasonabl y expected to conform his  
behavior to the law so that he does not reoffend.”14  Treatment  of ASD “specifically targets 
empathy training.”15  It is aimed at people “with the social deficits associated with autism.”  
 “Child pornography only ” offenders are at extremely low risk of again committing 
the same type offense (1% over 6 years) and at very low risk of committing a hands on 
offense (3% over 6 years).16  Autistic persons have traits that militate  against risks for 
 
13 Tr. at 20.  
14 Id. at 21.  
15 Id. at 327.  
16 The most  recent  data analysis  addressing typically  developed  individuals  show that  the risks  of 
reoffending  as to child pornography  for one who has no  history  of contact  offenses  is very low, and for 
a contact  offense almost negligible.  Autism  is a countervailing factor to risk.  Persons with ASD are 
“rule bound”.  Once taught that behavior is inappropriate and wrong, they rigidly conform to the rules.  
 Online  offenders  with no history of  contact  offenses  almost  never  committed  contact  sexual  offenses,  
despite a comparably  higher interest  in photographs  of children compared  to contact  offenders.  Kelly  
M. Babchishin,  R. Karl Hanson & Heather VanZuylen,  Online  Child  Pornography  Offenders  are Different:  
A Meta-analysis of  the Characteristics  of Online and Offline  Sex Offenders  Against  Children,  49 ARCH 
SEX. BEHAV . 44-66 (2014 ).  
 There  is only a one percent official recidivism  rate for contact  sexual  offences  and a three percent Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 13 of 1614 
 reoffending.  Those traits –  rigid adherence  to social rules once learned – make  them 
highly unlikely to reoffend.   
 Incarceration in this case has a positive and a negative side.  On the positive side, 
Shore can benefit  from the Bureau of Prisons’ psychological and psychiatric treatment  
specific to his offense conduct.  These treatments  are aimed at avoiding the 
consequences  of future misbehavior.  O n the negative side, Shore, like other inmates 
with autism, will have difficulty in deali ng with other inmates because he will be unable to 
understand his effect on them, setting him up for manipulation and victimization .17  “His 
condition puts him at risk of injury  and victimization and  psychological regression.”18  An 
autistic inmate “could be readily exploited,  abused or blackmailed  by other  inmates .”19 
 After balancing Shore’s diminished culpability against the gravity of the offense 
and considering the penological goals of sentencing, we conclude that application of the 
15-year mandatory minimum sentence raises an inference of gross disproportionality.  
Thus, we proceed to compar e the sentence to those imposed in this district and other 
district  for the same offense.  
Intrajurisdictional Inquiry  
 Fifteen of the 83 defendants convicted of violating § 2251(a) in this district received 
no greater than a 15- year mandatory minimum sentence.  No defendant received a 
 
recidivism rate for child pornography offences after a follow -up of up to six  years.   Michael C. Seto, R . 
Karl Hanson & Kelly M. Babchishin, Contact Sexual Offending by Men With Online  Sexual  Offenses , 23 SEX. 
ABUSE :  J. RES. & TREATMENT  124-145 (2011) . 
17 Tr. at 17.  
18 Id. 
19 Id. at 95.  Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 14 of 1615 
 sentence less than 180 months – the mandatory minimum.  The two defendants with 
Asperger’ s Syndrome were sentenced to 330 and 720 months’ imprisonment , 
respectively.   
 Shore’s conduct was significantly less egregious than the two defendants with 
Asperger’s.  In those cases, the defendant s engaged in contact  with the minors .  The 
defendant sentenced to 720 months videotaped himself sexually abusing a two- year-old 
boy and a three- year-old girl.  The other defendant with Asperger’s molested and took 
photographs of children engaging in sexual acts he directed.  Shore engaged in no  
physical contact  with the young teenagers.  
 The sentences of the 83 defendants in this district demonstrate that a 15- year 
minimum sentence for a violation of § 2251(a) is not grossly disproportionate.  Indeed, a 
longer sentence may be considered proportionate.  
 There wer e nine cases where the mandatory 15- year sentence was imposed and 
the bottom of the sentencing range was above 180 months. Although this does not 
confirm gross disproportionality, it does support a variance when viewed under 18 U.S.C. 
§ 3553(a)(6).  
Interju risdiction al Inquiry  
 The guideline for violation of § 2251 is United States Sentencing Guidelines 
(USSG ) § 2G2.1.  The base offense level is 32.  An enhancement under U SSG § 41.5 
adds five points to the offense level.   
 At our request, t he Sentencing Commission provided sentencing results in cases 
of defendants convicted of a § 2251 violation and sentenced under  USSG § 2G2.1 and a 
§ 4B1.5 enhancement.  The Commission provided a statistical analysis of sentences for Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 15 of 1616 
 three different scenarios which identify the  type of sentence imposed, the sentence 
relati ve to the guideline range, average sentence length, average guideline range, 
supervised release imposed, and the average t erm of supervised release.  
 This statistical data shows that on a national basis a 1 5-year prison sentence is 
not unusual, let alone grossly disproportionate , for a defendant convicted of violating § 
2251.  Thus, we conclude that the intrajurisdictional and the interjurisdictional 
comparative analysis of sentences of those convicted of the similar offenses does not 
support a finding that a 15- year sentence in these circumstances i s extreme and does not 
confirm the inference that a 15- year sentence is grossl y disproportionate.  
Conclusion  
 Given Shore’s individual characteristics, his diminished culpability, and the 
specifics of his offense conduct, a 15- year minimum sentence is harsh.  But , it is not cruel 
and unusual in violation of the Eighth Amendment .  Therefore, we must deny his motion  
to bar application of the 15- year mandatory minimum sentence.  
 All the factors bearing on our finding of an inference of gross disproportionality and 
under 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) support a variance from the guideline of life imprisonment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Case 2:17-cr-00502-TJS     Document 50     Filed 07/07/20     Page 16 of 16