MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION FOR ORDER 
PROHIBITING CONTACT WITH PROSPECTIVE JURORS ABSENT LEAVE OF COURT       Page  1 Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender 
Kootenai County Public Defender 
PO Box 9000 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 446-1700; Fax: (208) 446-1701 
Bar Number: 5836 
iCourt Email: pdfax@kcgov.us  
 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho  83661 
Phone: 208-642-3797; Fax: 208-642-3799 
 
Assigned Attorney: 
Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 
Jay W. Logsdon, Chief Deputy Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR29 -22-2805 
 
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF  
OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S  
MOTION FOR ORDER PROHIBITING 
CONTACT WITH PROSPECTIVE 
JURORS ABSENT LEAVE OF COURT  
 
 
 
COMES NOW , Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorney of record , Anne C. 
Taylor, Public Defender, and hereby submits this Memorandum in Support of Objection to the 
State’s Motion for Order Prohibiting Contact with Prospective Jurors Absent Leave of the Court.  
Telephonic surveys to explore the media stories the juror population has been 
exposed to is not a violation of this Court’ s Revised O rder issued June 23, 2023. 
The State has alleged that the Defense has violated this Court’s Revised Order.  
Specifically, t he State alleges the Defense has violated the prohibition on discussing: STATE OF IDAHO  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
3/26/2024 11:48 AM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkMEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION FOR ORDER 
PROHIBITING CONTACT WITH PROSPECTIVE JURORS ABSENT LEAVE OF COURT       Page  2 [t]he identity or nature of evidence expected to be presented at trial or any 
sentencing phase of the proceedings." Order, pp.1- 2. The Order also prohibits the 
disclosure of "[a]ny information a lawyer knows or reasonably should know is likely to be inadmissible evidence in trial, and that would, if disclosed, create a substantial risk of prejudicing an impartial trial." Order, p.2.  
 The Defense is aware of these prohibitions, after al l, the Defense wrote the original  order upon 
which it is based. The State, however, misunderstands the prohibition in this respect.  The 
Defense is not “disclosing”  information.  The Defense is asking prospective jurors in the county 
of Latah as to what in formation they are aware of that was previously “disclosed” vis -à-vis the 
press.   Further, the Revised Order for Non -Dissemination allows for Counsel to ask questions of 
the public to do its work.  That is exactly what happened.   
 Mr. Kohberger  in his prep aration for his Change of Venue hearing is mindful of what the 
Court must consider and the available means to obtain information for his  evidentiary hearing.  
Idaho Criminal Rule 21 (ICR 21) and relevant case law guide the factors a court must consider i n 
a motion to change venue.  The State’s motion and the Court’s order intrudes on one of the ways 
the Defense will seek to establish prejudice pursuant to ICR 21(a).  State v. Hadden, 152 Idaho 371, Ct. of Appeals (2012) outlines relevant factors a court m ust consider when taking up a 
change of venue motion prior to attempting to seat a jury:   extensive publicity, accuracy of 
publicity, and the size of the community from which a jury would be drawn.  The Hadden court, 
in referencing the size of the county as being small said, “[h]owever, this fact alone does not require the presumption of prejudice, nor would such a rule be practicable given the relatively rural nature of many of Idaho's counties.” Id. at  386.   The Hadden c ourt also said a party 
challenging  venue must bring “ more ” than the si ze of the community.  Certainly  pervasive 
media coverage, that continues to this day, is a factor and will be discussed in a later filing; the focus here is on critical survey work obtaining information to support the change of venue motion by establishing the “more”  in addition to size of community; this important work will 
establish the reasonable probability of prejudice.  MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION FOR ORDER 
PROHIBITING CONTACT WITH PROSPECTIVE JURORS ABSENT LEAVE OF COURT       Page  3 To provide that “more” , the defense hired Dr. Bryan Edelman, owner of Trial 
Innovations.   Dr. Ede lman is an experienced doctor  of social psychology with additional 
educational achievement and experience in statistical surveys.   It likely will help to understand 
how surveys are done in cases such as this.  The survey, to be valid, must be  done by a random 
selection of contacts.   The number of surveys are small but enough to see trends that are 
attributed to a larger population.  See Declaration of D r. Edelman attached as Exhibit A .  The 
questions in the survey seek limited but important information.   To qualify the surveyor first asks 
if the person reached is an adult Latah County resident; then the survey continues with opinion, 
exposure and connection to the case questions.  Dr. Edelman, after extensive research of the 
media coverage in thi s case and with approval of Counsel, designed the media influence 
questions around statements that have been in the media.   
As counsel for the State wrote in their  motion, many of the media influence questions are 
NOT factually correct.   That is exactly t he point.   That is what the Hadden Court said in relation 
to extensive media coverage; non -factual media dissemination is more harmful.   It would be of 
little use to this Court to know that there was a deluge of unobjectionable media coverage.  The only wa y for this Court to have a way of understanding what the parties woul d face with a juror 
from Latah C ounty is to know what  they are being exposed to. As D r. Edelman can testify, that 
is the sort of work parties do in these cases.  It may be new to some in Latah County, but it is still  
the industry standard, professional, and ethical way to do this work.  
There is no realistic possibility that this will affect the jury selection in Latah  County .  
The problems with this county are not of the Defense’ s making.  They are what the Defense 
wishes to expose for this Court. 
CONCLUSION 
The State’s Motion is filed against the backdrop of Mr. Kohberger preparing for his 
Motion to Change Venue.  The State objected to the Court scheduling a change of venue heari ng MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF OBJECTION TO THE STATE’S MOTION FOR ORDER 
PROHIBITING CONTACT WITH PROSPECTIVE JURORS ABSENT LEAVE OF COURT       Page  4 and now, through this motion, is thwarting the Defense preparation for the motion.   The State 
knows Counsel for Mr. Koberger did not violate the R evised Non- Dissemination Order;  the State 
and Counsel met the day before the State filed its motion and di scussed the content of the survey 
and received the curriculum vitae  for the expert hired by the defense.   The State was informed 
that these types of surveys are not an anomaly.  However , the State filed its motion anyway.   The 
State’s motion should be deni ed, and the order prohibiting future contact with prospective jurors 
should be withdrawn.  
DATED this ___ 26____ day of March, 2024.  
ANNE C. TAYLOR, PUBLIC DEFENDER  
KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER   
 
 
      BY:  _________________________________ 
       ANNE TAYLOR  
       PUBLIC DEFENDER  
  
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the __26____ day of March, 2024 addressed to:  
 
 Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov
 
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
 
 
 
       
 
 
1 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN, Ph.D.  
I, Bryan Edelman, solemnly, sincerely,  and truly declare and affirm  as follows:  
I. INTRODUCTION  
I am the co -founder of Trial Innovations, Inc., a national full -service jury research firm. I 
have worked as a trial consultant for 20 years and have conducted pretrial and post -trial research 
on both criminal and civil cases across the country. I have been retained as an expert in over 70 
high profile cases to assess the impact of pretrial publicity on the fairness of the trial proceedings 
including the  State of Idaho v. Jonathan Renfro, State of Idaho v. Gilberto Rodriguez , State of 
Colorado v. James Holm es, United States v. Robert Bowers , State of Florida v. Nikolas Cruz , and 
United States v. David DePape.   
Counsel for the defendant in State of Idaho v. Brian Kohberger  retained me to research and 
evaluate: (1) whether there was extensive and prejudicial pretrial publicity  surrounding the killing  
of four students  attending the University of Idaho  in Moscow, the community panic that ensued, 
and the search for a suspect which ended with  Brian Kohberger ’s arrest ; (2) determine if  the media 
coverage has impacted the defendant’s  ability to obtain a fair and impartial jury in Latah County; 
(3) whether community residents in alternate venues exhibited similar bias; and (4) based on the 
findings, recommend appropriate remedial measures —for example,  a change of venue—to protect 
Mr. Kohberger’s ability to be tried by a fair and impartial jury.  As part of my analysis, I evaluated 
relevant newsprint, television, and social media coverage surrounding these events and conducted 
a community attitude survey of 400 residents in Latah County. Comparison surveys in alternative 
venues have yet to be completed. These survey s were designed to assess case recognition, 
familiarity with prejudicial media content, and bias.  
II. QUALIFICATIONS
Education and Experience : A copy of my curriculum vitae can be found in Appendix A
to this declaration. Upon completion of my undergraduate education, I received an MA and Ph.D. 
in Social Psychology from the University of Nevada, Reno, and an LL.M. from the University of 
Kent in the United Kingdom.  My graduate studies have provided me with a broad foundation in 
both qualitative and quantitative research methodologies as well as statistics  
The Social Psychology Program at the University of Nevada is unique in that it is one of 
the few in the country that has an emphasis on the applicatio n of social psychological theory to the 
legal arena.  During my studies I specialized in jury related issues and examined how attitudes, race, stereotypes, pretrial publicity, and other factors influence juror and jury decision- making.  In 
A
CR29-22-28053/26/242 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 this regard, I t ook coursework addressing topics associated with change of venue motions, the 
impact of pretrial publicity on jurors’ ability to be fair and impartial, and the steps necessary to 
conduct a change of venue analysis.  The University’s association with the Na tional Judicial 
College and other government agencies also afforded me the opportunity to conduct research with the Public Defender, District Attorney, Court Services, the judiciary, and other  institutions in 
Washoe County, Nevada.  
Research Experience: Whi le at the University of Nevada, Reno I worked as a Research 
Assistant and Project Manager at the Grant Sawyer Center for Justice Studies where I assisted with several national surveys, including one that examined the judiciary’s understanding and 
applicati on of the Daubert standard.  I also explored how jurors “minimize” what they have read, 
seen, or heard about high profile cases during voir dire.  In addition, I oversaw a study of the Washoe County’s pretrial release program and assisted with the developm ent of training programs 
for foreign justices, court administrators, prosecutors, and defense attorneys who were brought to the United States by the Department of State.   
Further, I have conducted and published research on the impact of illegitimate factors on 
juror decision- making.  This research included developing and testing a model that attempted to 
explain how factors such as race and empathy influence pre-  and post -deliberation sentencing 
decisions in capital cases.  My research on juror decisi on-making in capital cases w as later 
published as a book.  Since completing my studies I have also published on the impact of graphic images on jurors, and on methodological issues associated with online survey research.   
Jury Research Experience: I began  working as a trial consultant in 1998 and co -founded 
Trial Innovations in 2010.  Over the years I have worked on hundreds of criminal and civil cases 
across the country.  As a trial consultant I have conducted mock trials, focus groups, surveys, post -
trial interviews, and other research exercises.  I have consulted in the courtroom and assisted with 
jury selection on more than 100 cases.  I have also served as a presenter at local bar associations, 
law firms, national meetings, and conferences.  In addition, I have been invited to conduct MCLE 
courses related to jury selection by the Public Defender, Alternate Defender, and District Attorney 
in California, Nevada, and New Mexico.  I have also served as a guest lecturer at the University 
of Santa Cruz , Saint  Mary’s College,  and Stanford Law School.    
Venue Experience: As a graduate student, I was trained by Dr. Ronald Dillehay and Dr. 
Edward Bronson, two of the leading experts in the country on venue and pretrial publicity.  Over 
the years I have had the opp ortunity to work with Dr. Bronson on a number of change of venue 3 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 studies.   
I have worked on change of venue issues in several different capacities.  As a researcher I 
have coded trial transcripts in high profile cases to evaluate how jurors “minimize” the ir bias and 
exposure to pretrial publicity during voir dire, and the challenges this phenomenon poses for judges 
and attorneys.  In addition, I examined the impact of television pretrial publicity on prejudgment 
of guilt.  I have also presented as a paneli st on change of venue issues at the American Society of 
Trial Consultants’ annual conference and been a co -author on the chapter in the “California 
Criminal Law Procedure and Practice” on change of venue since 2011.    
I have conducted content analyses of media coverage on a host of topics and have designed 
more than 50 community attitude surveys over the years.  I have been retained as an expert to 
conduct and evaluate change of venue studies, and also to recommend remedial measures for 
addressing exposure  to pretrial publicity outside of a change of venue.  
Expert Witness Experience: I have been retained as an expert witness on matters 
including freedom of religion in China (political asylum hearing), eyewitness identification, and 
change of venue.  I have  testified as an expert witness in person or by declaration in California, 
Idaho, Colorado, Texas, Michigan, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, West Virginia, and Washington in state and federal court. In the majority of cases I have been 
retained to conduct a change of venue study ,
1 I have recomm ended against a change of venue .  
III. THE INFLUENCE OF ATTITUDES ON COGNITION2      
There is a substantial body of literature documenting the impact of attitudes on information 
processing. Attitudes have been shown to have an impact on selective attention, the evaluation of 
new information, memory recall, and behavior. This research provides insight into how media 
coverage may lead to juror bias. 
Pretrial publicity can have a prej udicial effect on jurors through its impact on the formation 
of attitudes and beliefs that they bring into the courtroom. Attitudes are not isolated entities but 
are often linked to other memories, experiences, attitudes, and  beliefs. These links can creat e large 
networks of attitudes, which are resistant to change. The links between attitudes strengthen with 
repeated activation. As these links strengthen, the probability increases that the attitudes and 
underlying beliefs will be consistent with one anothe r and brought to awareness simultaneously. 
                                                 
1 These exclude instances where I have been hired to review a change of venue survey, assist with addressing media 
coverage during voir dire,  or review trial transcripts and pretrial publicity as part of a post- conviction appeal.  
2 Cognition is a term referring to the mental processes involved in gaining knowledge and comprehension, including 
thinking, knowing, remembering, judging and problem  solving.  4 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 Attitudes that are strongly linked to one another are more easily accessible in memory and more 
likely to be automatically activated with exposure to the attitude object. Attitudes can be activated 
automatically w ithout any conscious, intentional processing. This is more likely to occur when an 
attitude has been repeatedly activated in the past.3 
When media coverage surrounding a case is broad, extensive, and redundant, strong links 
between relevant attitudes and b eliefs begin to form. If the pretrial publicity creates links between 
case details, attitudes, and beliefs over the course of a trial, these attitudes are likely to be 
automatically activated at a subconscious level. As described below, this network of linked 
attitudes can have an impact on a juror’s attention to and  evaluation of the evidence and arguments 
presented in court. 
As the network of linked attitudes grows and strengthens, specific attitudes become 
resistant to change because change requires revisions to other attitudes and beliefs within the network. Resistance to revising well -established attitudes has been shown to lead to biased 
information processing. When attitudes are strong, there is a tendency to favor arguments and information in support of those attitudes over arguments that may disprove them. The acceptance 
of a counterargument can create cognitive dissonance.
4 In an effort to avoid cognitive dissonance, 
information that supports attitudes may be selectively attended to and countera rguments may be 
distorted or dismissed.5 
Attitudes can also have an impact on attention and recall. Research has shown that 
information that supports a preexisting attitude is easier to learn, more accurately retained and 
easier to recall. The links formed  between attitudinally supporting information and preexisting 
attitudes are stronger than those formed between counterarguments and preexisting attitudes. As a result, the latter is more difficult to retrieve from memory. Further, there is a tendency to pr oduce 
new beliefs, which support preexisting attitudes and suppress those that run counter to such attitudes.  
In sum, when a venue is exposed to prejudicial  media coverage surrounding a crime, there 
is a risk that potential jurors will develop a large netw ork of linked attitudes and beliefs relating to 
the victim, the defendant, and  the crime. These linked attitudes include opinions about the guilt of 
                                                 
3 Eagley, A.H., & Chaiken, S. (1993). The psychology of attitudes. Florida: Harcourt Brace College Publishers.  
4 Cognitive dissonance is an uncomfortable feeling caused by holding two contradictory ideas simultaneously. People 
have a motivational  drive to reduce dissonance by changing their attitudes, beliefs,  and behaviors or by justifying or 
rationalizing them.  
5 For example, people list more counterarguments for information that refutes preexisting attitudes than information 
that supports them.  5 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 the defendant, appropriate sentence and evaluations of the evidence presented through the media. 
When the l inks between attitudes are strong, they can be activated at a subconscious level and have 
an impact on jurors’ evaluation of the evidence and arguments presented at trial. 
Attitudinally supporting arguments will be more closely attended to, evaluated as 
persuasive, integrated into the existing network of attitudes and beliefs and made easily accessible 
during deliberations. In contrast, counterarguments and evidence conflicting with well -established 
attitudes may create cognitive dissonance. As a result, ju rors will either ignore this evidence or 
make cognitive efforts to refute it. This evidence will not establish strong links to preexisting 
attitudes and will not be easily accessible during deliberations. When a venue has been saturated 
with pretrial publicity, these psychological processes can put the defendant at a significant 
disadvantage, undermine the presumption of innocence, and diminish the prosecution’s burden of 
proof.  
The prejudicial impact of preexisting attitudes is accentuated by the fact that  the media 
coverage underlying them is often biased in favor of the prosecution. Furthermore, news content 
is encoded under very different circumstances from those found in the courtroom, because the 
rules of evidence that are strictly enforced at trial do  not apply. As such, the persuasive impact of 
information presented through the news media becomes more significant and engrained in the 
juror’s mind than the evidence presented at trial.  
IV. THE PREJUDICIAL IM PACT OF PRETRIAL PUBLICITY  
There is a body of research within the social sciences that attempts to address the impact 
of pretrial publicity on decision- making in the c ourtroom. This literature suggests that pretrial 
publicity influences evaluations of the defendant, perceptions of criminality, sympathy toward the 
defendant, pretrial judgments regarding guilt, and final verdicts.6    
Daftary -Kapur, Penrod, O’Connor, and Wallace (2014) conducted a field study that 
                                                 
6 See Constantini, E., & King, J. (1980 -1981). The partial juror: Correlates and causes of prejudgment. Law and Society 
review, 15, 9 -40; DeLuca, A.J. (1979). Tipping the scales of justice. The effects of pretrial publicity.  Unpublished 
master’s thesis, I owa State University, Ames; Hvistendahl, J.K. (1979). The effect of placement of biasing 
information. Journalism Quarterly, 56, 863- 865; Kline, F.G., & Jess, P.H. (1966). Prejudicial publicity: Its effects on 
law school mock juries. Journalism Quarterly, 43, 113-116; Moran, G. & Cutler, B.L. (1991). The prejudicial impact 
of pretrial publicity. Journalism of Applied Social Psychology, 21, 345-367; Otto, A.L., Penrod, S., & Dexter, H. 
(1994). The biasing impact of pretrial publicity on juror judgments. Law a nd Human Behavior, 18, 453 -470; Padawer -
Singer, A. & Barton A.H. (1975). The impact of pretrial publicity on jurors’ verdicts. In R.J. Simon (Ed.) The jury 
system in America: A critical overview (pp. 123- 139). Beverly Hills, CA: Sage; Simon, R.J., Eimerman n, T.  (1971). 
The jury finds not guilty: Another look at media influence on the jury. Journalism Quarterly, 48, 343 -344; Sue, S., 
Smith, R.E., & Gilbert, R. (1974). Biasing effect of pretrial publicity on judicial decisions. Journal of Criminal Justice, 2, 163-171;Tans, M., & Chaffee, S. (1966). Pretrial publicity and juror prejudice. Journalism Quarterly, 43, 647- 654. 6 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 incorporated real time ev idence into the methodology.7 Participants included jury -eligible 
community members who were naturally exposed to pretrial publicity over a 14- month period 
leading up to the trial. Trial summaries were presented online during six sessions over the course 
of ten weeks.   
The researchers reported a pretrial publicit y effect that persisted throughout the actual trial. 
Despite the admonitions to set -aside prejudicial pretrial publicity, participants were biased by the 
content of the pretrial publicity. Spec ifically, those exposed to prosecution -oriented articles were 
more punitive in their guilty ratings across all six sessions compared to those exposed to pro-
defense pretrial publicity. The amount of the pretrial publicity participants were exposed to also 
had a significant effect. In addition, the biasing effect of pr etrial publicity did not disappear over 
time. Thus, neither delay nor trial evidence eliminated the pretrial publicity effect on judgments of 
guilt.   
Steblay, et al. ( 1999) conducted a meta -analysis8 encompassing 44 research studies on 
pretrial publicity.  The authors reported a statistically significant relationship between p retrial 
publicity and verdicts.9 Media coverage addressing the defendant’s prior record, the existence of 
confessions, the heinousness of the crime, and negative character of the defendant have all been 
shown to have an effect on perceptions of guilt and final verdicts. Furthermore, deliberations may 
not reduce the biasing impact of pretrial publicity.10 In fact, Kramer, Kerr, and Carroll (1990), 
found that deliberations actually accentuated the effects of pretrial publicity on final verdicts.11      
Dexter, Cutler, and Moran (1992) also reported a significant relationship between pretrial 
publicity and views toward guilt. Participants were given pretrial publicity a week before the study 
began. Negative pretrial publicity increased conviction rates, even for subjects who underwent 
extensive voir dire addressing pretrial publicity.12  
As demonstrated by Ruva and McEvoy (2007) exposure to pretrial publicity can influence 
                                                 
7 Daftary -Kapur, T., Penrod, S.D., O’Connor, M. & Wallace, B. (2014). Examining pretrial publicity in a shadow jury 
paradigm: Issues of slant, quantity, persistence,  and generalizability. Law and Human Behavior , 38(5), 462- 477. 
8 A meta -analysis is a statistical analysis of several separate but similar experiments or studies in order to test the 
pooled data for statistical significance.  
9 Steblay, Jasmina Besirevic, Solomon M. Fulero, Belia Jimenez- Lorente. “The Effects of Pretrial Publicity on Juror 
Verdicts: A Meta -Analytic Review”, Law and Human Behavior, vol.23, no.2, pp. 219- 235, 1999.  
10 Otto, A.L., Penrod, S. & Dexter, H.R. (1994). The biasing impact of pretrial publicity on juror judgments. Law and 
Human Behavior , 18(4), 452- 469. 
11 Kramer, G.P., Kerr, N.L., & Carroll, J.S. (1990). Pretrial publicity, judicial remedies, and jury bias.  Law and Human 
Behavior, 14(5), 409- 438. 
12 Dexter , H., Cutler, B.L., & Moran, G. (1992). A test of voir dire  as a remedy for the prejudicial effects of pretrial 
publicity. Journal of Applied Social Psychology , 22, 819-832. 7 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 verdicts by affecting  perceptions of defendant credibility, ratings of the prosecuting and defense 
attorneys, and source attribution errors (i.e., misattributing information learned from the media as 
evidence presented as trial evidence).13     
Consistent with the experimental literature on attitudes described above, Hope, Memon, 
and McGeorge (2004) found that jurors exposed to negative pretrial publicity evaluate pro-
prosecution evidence more favorably than its actual probative value, a phenomenon coined “pre -
decisional distort ion.”14 Thus, attitudes developed from exposure to pretrial publicity serve as a 
filter through which later trial evidence is evaluated.      
IV. TELEPHONE SURVEY   
A telephone survey of 400 residents was conducted in Latah County . The sample size of 
400 was calculated via a power analysis to reach a n industry -standard 95% confidence interval of 
+ or – 5% using the most conservative response distribution (50%). Comparison surve ys were 
planned in two alternative counties to assess if any potential bias found in Latah County  carried 
over to the rest of the State.  
The survey instrument used in this case adheres to industry standards established by the 
American Association of Public Opinion Research (AAPOR) and the change of venue survey 
professional code esta blished by the American Society of Trial Consultants (ASTC).15 The survey 
instrument, topics of focus, and questions were constructed after reading more than 269  articles 
that reference the murders  in the Moscow -Pullman Daily News , The Idaho Argonaut , and the 
Spokesman- Review . Steps were taken regarding the structure and flow of the instrument and design 
of the questions to mitigate potential threats to internal validity including response bias and order 
effects.  
All of the questions in the survey instrument —including the media recognition items16 
criticized by the government —were carefully selected based on how pervasive each item was in 
the coverage. None of the media recognition items included any information that was not widely 
reported and availab le in the public domain. The rest of the survey instrument focused on 
                                                 
13 Ruva, C.L., & McEvoy, C. (2008). Negative and positive pretrial publicity affect  juror memory and decision-
making. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, 14(3), 226- 235. 
14 Hope, L., Memon, A. & McGeorge, P. (2004). Understanding pretrial publicity: Predecisional distortion of evidence 
by mock jurors. Journal of Experimental Psyc hology: Applied, 10, 111- 119. 
15ASTC Professional Code, available at: 
https://www.astcweb.org/resources/Documents/ASTC%20Professional%20Code%20Updated%202021.pdf.  
16 For example, have you read, seen, or heard if Brian Kohberger was arrested at his parent’s home in Pennsylvania?   
 8 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 respondent’s opinions  of the defendant, prejudgment, and experiences during the search for a 
suspect. The survey measured resident’s exposure to media coverage, the extent of their case 
knowledge, and their opinions  regarding the case.  
The survey was conducted by Research Strategies, Inc., a consumer, public opinion, and 
business -to-business market research firm for thirty -six (36) years. Their  data has been used in 4 9 
Districts, Federal  District Courts, and the U.S. Department of Justice . They  programmed the 
screener and the survey into Research Strategies, Inc.’s proprietary computer program “Research 
Express .” Patricia Rhinehart, Vice President, led, trained, and instructed for this te lephone polling 
project. Research Strategies, Inc.’s’ Research Express program was thoroughly tested prior to the implementation of the survey. Research Strategies’ Inc.’s in- house Telephone Operations Center 
is manned with, experienced, professionally tra ined researchers familiar with conducting change 
of venue studies. These researchers are specifically selected for their demeanor and speaking 
ability and have a combined average of 9.6 years with Research Strategies, Inc. With a mean age 
of 52.5 years, Re search Strategies, Inc. restricts the minimum age for these researchers to 25 years 
of age.  
Respondents who refused to participate in the survey were not called again.  Research 
Strategies, Inc.’s protocol is continuous on- site monitoring of each telephone researcher that 
validates a minimum of 5% of each researcher’s calls. They  follow standard procedures developed 
by the Marketing Research Association as well as Data Collection guidelines for the Council of American Survey.   
To successfully win a change  of venue motion, the defendant needs to  demonstrate that the 
media coverage has generated bias in the community that undermines his or her constitutional right 
to a fair and impartial trial. T he standard method for measuring  prejudgment and fixed opinions 
within a venue  is a community attitude survey. There is no other accepted scientific method for 
doing so. By preventing the defendant from completing this  survey, the government is impeding 
his ability to collect the data required to meet his  burden. Will the government then criticize the 
change of venue motion for failing to demonstrate widespread bias and fixed opinions in Latah County?  
The survey design methodology I used in this case comports with surveys I have presente d 
in numerous other cases, which other courts have found to be valid and objective  when considering 
the need to change venue. For example, i n California v. Quentin Ray Bealer, the court granted a 
change of venue largely based on findings from my  telephone survey , which were cited throughout 9 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 the decision , stating that: “Dr. Edelman appeared to use a measured, objective analysis  of the 
basis for a change of venue.”17 The Bealer  court also found me to be “an experienced expert in the 
area of change of venue.”18 In United States v. Sablan, the c ourt concluded that “the potential for 
influence creating bias is apparent as reflected in Dr. Edelman’s survey .… Indeed, Dr. Edelman’s 
survey shows actual bias in more than half the potential jury pool .”19  
The notion that polling 400 community residents (1% of the Latah County population 18 
and over) is the cause of  potential bias in a county that has been saturated with hundreds of highly 
prejudicial newspaper articles, television news stories, and social m edia posts is not credible. 
Unlike the media, individual residents do not serve as a communication channel for  disseminating  
information across the county .  There is no evidence that conducting the survey has had  any impact 
on the master list of prospectiv e jurors or potential venire in this case.  
The survey in Latah County has already been completed. It is my opinion—unless the 
government is willing to concede the point  and waive the issue —that it is necessary to complete 
comparison surveys in alternate v enues . This is the only method for  demonstrating  that there are 
counties in Idaho that are significantly less biased against the defendant than Latah County.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
17 State of California v. Quentin Ray Bealer  (2014), NCR86297, Ruling on Defendant’s Motion for Change of 
Venue, at * 21 (attached as Exhibit A).  
18 Id. 
19 United States v. Joseph Cabrera Sablan (2014), CR -00259- PMP, Order re Defendant Sablan’s Motion to Transfer 
Venue, at *3 (attached as Exhibit B).   10 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing facts are true and correct, except as to facts stated upon information and belief, which facts I believe to be true.   
 
  
 
 
 
Executed on March  25, 2024 
   
 
__________________________ 
Bryan Edelman  
 
     
11 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
  
   
APPENDIX A: CURRICULUM VITA  
 
BRYAN EDELMAN , PH.D. 
   
  
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  
Trial Innovations, Oakland and Los Angeles, California  2011- Current  
Co-founder 
• Design and implement jury research  
• Conduct community survey research on jury issues 
• Serve as expert witness on venue, survey jury issues, and eyewitness identification  
• Assist with jury selection, juror questionnaire design, etc.  
• Provide trial consulting services  
• Provide in -house legal education  
• Conduct post- trial juror interviews  
• Conduct consumer insight research for fortune 500 companies (e.g., Facebook, Google)  
 
The Jury Research Institute,  Alamo, California  2005-2010  
Senior Trial Consultant 
• Conducted multi-stage qualitative and quantitative research (e.g., focus groups, mock                     
trials, shadow juries)  
• Served as expert witness (e.g., ch ange of venue motions)           
• Designed and conducted telephone and online survey research  
• Conducted post- trial juror interviews  
• Provided trial consulting services  
• Analyzed qualitative and quantitative data  
• Served as speaker and visiting lecturer at co nferences, universities, law firms, and Bar           
Associations  
 The National Jury Project, Oakland, California  2005  
Associate Trial Consultant   
• Conducted qualitative and quantitative research  
• Analyzed quantitative and qualitative data from prospective juror questionnaires  
• Interpreted research results and developed strategy recommendations  
• Assisted with crafting opening statements and closing arguments   
Trial Science, Inc.,  Reno, Nevada  1999-2003 
Associate Trial Consultant  
• Conducted focus groups and mock trials 
• Analyzed quantitative and qualitative data  
• Presented findings and recommendations to trial team 
• Developed jury selection profiles 
 
Grant Sawyer Center for Justice Studies,  Reno, Nevada 2000-2003  
Project Manager, “Predicting Failure in Pre -trial Release Programs in Washoe County”     
12 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 • Designed and implemented an evaluation of the Washoe County pre -trial release program  
• Oversaw data collection (over 40,000 cases) and analyzed data 
• Served as an ombudsman between trial courts, police departments, Court Services,  
and the judicial sub- committee  
• Presented findings to the Court Services Sub- Committee and at international conferences   
 
Research Associate, “Minimization of Pre- Trial Publicity Knowle dge during Voir Dire”  
• Co-developed research methodology  
• Performed content analysis of trial transcripts from high profile cases 
• Analyzed data 
  
Research Associate, “Science in the Courtroom”  
• Co-developed survey codebook 
• Completed content analysis of judges’ responses regarding the Daubert standard  
 
Research Associate, “Judicial Workload Pilot Project”  
• Completed telephone interviews with judges  
• Conducted content analysis of qualitative data from interviews  
 
EXPERT WITNES S & VENUE EXPERIENCE20 
United States  v. Marilyn Mosby  (2023).   Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of media 
coverage.  Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended change of venue.    
 
State of California  v. Joseph Maloney  (2023).   Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of 
media coverage.  Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended change of venue.    
 State of Ohio v. Bennie Adams  (2023).   Conducted content analysis of media coverage and reviewed jury 
selection transcripts.  Testified at post- conviction hearing.    
 
State of California  v. David DePape  (2032).   Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended change of 
venue. Testified via declaration.    
 
State of Tennessee v. Lemaricus Davidson (2023).   Conducted content analysis of media coverage and 
reviewed jury selection transcripts.  Testified via declaration.    
 
United States  v. Aaron Zahn (2022).   Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended change of venue.  
 
State of California  v. Robert Somerville (2022).   Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended 
against moving forward with venue study.      
 
State of California  v. Joshua Rodriquez (2022. Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against 
moving forward with venue study.      
 
State of Tennessee  v. Michael Gray (2022).   Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended change of 
venue.  
 
State of West Virginia v. Joshua Phillips  (2022).  Conducted community attitude survey and testified in change 
of venue hearing. Recommended change of venue.  
 
                                                 
20 This is not an exhaustive list and does not include some current cases which are still pending.  13 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 State of Colorado v. Barry Morphew  (2022).  Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended change of 
venue.  
 
United States v. Robert Bow ers (2022).  Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended change of 
venue.  
 State of Washington v. David Nickels (2021).  Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended change of 
venue.  
 
United States v. James Cloud (2021).  Conducted community attit ude survey. Recommended change of venue.  
 
State of Florida v. Nikolas Cruz  (2021).  Analysis of media coverage and testified in closure hearing.   
 
State of Nevada v. James Biela  (2021).  Conducted post -conviction analysis (media coverage, defense motions, 
and reviewed jury selection transcripts).  
 
State of Minnesota v. Alex Kueng (2021).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Pending.   
 
United States v. Robert Bowers  (2021).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Pending.  
 People v. Nikolas Cruz  (2021).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Testified in closure hearing.  
 
Timaero Ireland Limited v. The Boeing Company (2020).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Pending.  
 State of Tennessee v. Andrew Delke  (2019).  Conducted community attitude surve y and content analysis of 
media coverage.  Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended change of venue.    
 
People v. Diane Anderson  (2019).  Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of media 
coverage.  Testified at change of venue h earing.  Recommended change of venue.    
 
State of Tennessee v. Nikolaus Johnson (2019).  Conducted content analysis of media coverage and reviewed jury selection transcripts.  Testified at post -conviction hearing.    
 People v. Jason Van Dyke (2018).  Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of media 
coverage.  Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended change of venue.    
 People v. Brian Cooks  (2017).  Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of media coverage.  
Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended remedial measures during jury selection [Case settled].   
 
People v. Johnathan Feit  (2017).  Conducted community attit ude survey.  Conducted community attitude 
survey.  Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of media coverage.  Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended change of venue.    
 
People v. Jonathan Renfro (2017).  Conducted community a ttitude survey.  Did not make recommendations 
regarding remedial measures.          
 
People v. Kenneth Rossy  (2017).   Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended moving forward 
with community attitude survey.      
 Angelo Harmon et al. v. The Salvation Army, et al  (2017).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Did not 
make any recommendations.     
 
United States v. Charles Banks  (2016). Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended change of 
venue.     
 14 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 United States v. Jessie Con -ui (2016).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended remedial 
measures during jury selection.  
 
People v. Lubrin, et al. (2016).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended remedial measures 
during jury selection.  
Melissa Mays, et al., v. Rick Snyder, et  al. (2016).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended 
change of venue.  
 People v. Balser and Robinson (2016).  Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving 
forward with venue study.      
 
United States v. Dredd (2016).  Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended remedial measures 
during jury selection.  
 
People v. Romero (2016): Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving forward 
with venue study.      
 People v. Morales (2016). Conducted community  attitude survey and content analysis of media coverage.  
Testified at change of venue hearing.  Recommended remedial measures during jury selection [Granted].   
 People v Williams (2015). Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended against a change of venue.  
 Commonwealth v. Chism (2015). Approved by Court to assist with crafting juror questionnaire to address 
pretrial publicity.  
 
U.S. v. Blankenship (2015). Conducted community attitude survey for the DOJ.  
 U.S. v. Sablan (2014). Conducted community attitude story and submitted a declaration.  Recommended a 
change of venue [Granted].  
 
People v. Bealer (2014). Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of media coverage.  
Testified at change of venue hearing and transfer hearing.  Recommended a change of venue [Granted].   
 
People v. Ware, et al. (2014). Conducted content analysis of media coverage and grand jury transcript.  
Submitted a declaration recommending that the grand jury transcript remain sealed [Granted].   
 People v. Castillo (2014).  Conducted community attitude survey [Venue hearing denied]. 
 People v. Shirakawa (2014). Conducted community attitude survey Recommended against a change of venue.      
 People v. Holmes (2014): Conducted content analysis of media coverage.  Recommended a change of venue 
[Denied].      
 People v. Tree (2014): Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving forward with 
venue study.      
 
People v. Hoyt (2014): Reviewed pretrial publicity, juror questionnaires, and voir dire transcript.  
Recommended that trial counsel should have pursued change of venue.      
 People v. Duran (2014). Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving forward with 
venue study.  
 15 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 People v. White (2013): Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving forward with 
venue study.      
 People v. Vega (2013): Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving forward with 
venue study.      
 
People v. Ayers (2013): Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended against a change of venue.  
 
People v. Lucero (2013): Conducted community attitude survey.  Recommended against a change of venue.    
 People v. Bennett (2013): Conducted media analysis.  Recommended against a change of venue.  
 
People v. Deloney (2012): Testified as expert witness regarding literature on the accuracy of eyewitness identification, memory, cognition, and suggestive questioning.  
 People v. Ortega, et al. (2012):  Conducted community attitude survey and content analysis of pretrial 
publicity. Testified as expert witness about results, the impact of pretrial publicity on attitudes, memory, jury 
selection, and jury -decision making. 
 
People v. Bey (2011): Conducted com munity attitude survey and content analysis of pretrial publicity. 
Testified as expert witness about results, the impact of pretrial publicity on attitudes, memory, jury selection, 
and jury -decision making. 
  
Johnson, et al. v. BART, et al. (2011).  Conduc ted community attitude survey.  Recommended against filing a 
change of venue motion.      
 People v. Fowler (2011): Conducted community attitude survey. Recommended certain communities be 
excluded from the venue [Granted]  
 
People v. Sanchez, et al (2011): Conducted preliminary media analysis.  Recommended against moving 
forward with venue study.  
 
People v. Loughner (2011): Conducted media analysis. 
 Huang Xiu Mei, New York (2007): Expert witness in political asylum hearing.  
 
Weather Shield v. Bostik (2005) : Evaluated plaintiff’s change of venue motion.   
 Olympic Pipeline Company v. Washington (2002).  Assisted with content analysis of media coverage.    
PUBLICATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS  
Bronson, E. Edelman, B., & Philipsborn, J.T. (2022). Change of Venue.  I n N. Yuenger (Ed.), California 
criminal law procedure and practice . Oakland: Continuing Education of the Bar.    
 Gordan, N. & Edelman, B. (2020). Self -Assessments About Fairness in the Robert Durst Case.  Presented  at 
the American Psychology Law Society Annual Conference, New Orleans, LA.    
 
Edelman, B. (2018). Psychology of the Jury. Presented  at the American Board of Trial Advocates MIT 
Program, Sacramento, CA.    
 Edelman, B. (2018). Preventing Runaway Juries . Presented at the Michigan Defense Trial Counsel’s Annual 
Meeting, MT Pleasant, MI.    
 16 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 Edelman, B. (2018). Trial Consulting 101. Presented at the American Psychological Association, Division 41, 
Memphis, TN.    
 Edelman, B. (2018). Trial Consulting 101. Pre sented at American Society of Trial Consultants Conference, Ft 
Worth, TX.    
 Edelman, B. (2016). Conducting an Effective Jury Selection. Presented at Santa Barbara Bar Association 
Bench and Bar Conference, Santa Barbara, CA.    
 
Edelman, B. (2015). Trial Consulting 101. Presented at American Society of Trial Consultants Conference, 
Nashville, TN.    
 
Edelman, B. (2015). Effective Jury Selection Lunch and Learn . Sponsored by Thomas Reuters (Oakland).  
 
Edelman, B. (2015). The Social Psychology of Jurors and  Juries . Presented at Washoe County Alternate 
Defender, Reno, NV.    
 
Edelman, B. (2013). The Social Psychology of Jurors and Juries . Presented at Washoe County Alternate 
Defender, Reno, NV.    
 Edelman, B. (2013).   Police Liability. Presented at the Lorm an Education Services Seminar in Santa Rosa.    
 
Edelman, B., & Canon, D. (2012). The Social Psychology of Jurors and Juries . Presented at Office of the 
Public Defender, Albuquerque, NM.    
 
Edelman, B. (2013).   Police Liability. Presented at the Lorman E ducation Services Seminar in Sacramento.    
 
Edelman, B., & Canon, D. (2012). The Social Psychology of Jurors and Juries . Presented at Office of the 
Public Defender, Albuquerque, NM.    
  
Edelman, B. (2011). Using online surveys to conduct jury research. T he Jury Expert, 23(6), 51- 54.   
 
Edelman, B. (2011). Juror race and capital sentencing. The Jury Expert, 23(4), 47- 49.   
 
Bronson, E., Dillehay, R. Edelman, B., & Rountree, W. (2011). Analyzing Pretrial Publicity in the New -Media 
Universe. Presented at the American Society of Trial Consultants Conference.  
 
Edelman, B. (2010). CLE: Selecting your Jury .  Presented at White and Williams, LLP, Philadelphia, PA.    
Edelman, B. (2010). Trial Consulting 101. Presented at the University of Nevada, Reno.  
 Edelman, B. (2009). The impact of graphic injury photographs on liability verdicts and non- economic damage 
awards. The Jury Expert, 21(5), 1- 4.   
 
Edelman, B. (2009) Online Research Tools to Evaluate Cases. Presented at the Santa Clara County Bar 
Association.    
 
Edelman, B. (2009).   Psychology in the Courtroom: Selecting Your Jury. Presented at the Monterey County 
Bar Association.    
 
Edelman, B. (2008).  Striking the Jury. Visiting lecturer at Stanford Law School.  
 
Edelman (2008).  Communicating with the Jury. Presented at the International Symposium on Life Care 
Planning, Phoenix.  
 17 
DECLARATION OF BRYAN EDELMAN  
 Edelman (2007).  Race, Empathy, and Capital Punishment.  Visiting lecturer at the University of California, 
Santa Cruz.  
   
Edelman, B. Racial Prejudice, Juror Empathy, and Sentenci ng in Death Penalty Cases. (New York: LFB 
Scholarly Publishing LLC, 2006) . 
 Edelman, B. & J.T. Richardson, (2005). Imposed limitations on freedom of religion in China and the margin of 
appreciation doctrine: A legal analysis of the crackdown on the Falun G ong and other “evil cults.” The Journal 
of Church and State, 47(2), 243- 267. 
 Richardson, J.T., & Edelman, B., Cult controversies and legal developments concerning new religions in Japan 
and China. In D.H. Davis & G. Besier (Eds.), International Perspectiv es on Freedom and Equality of Religious 
Belief, Waco: (Dawson Institute of Church- State Studies, Baylor University, 2002), reprinted in J.T. 
Richardson (Ed), Regulating Religion Case Studies from Around the World. (United States: Kluwer 
Academic/Plenum Pub lishers, 2004), pp. 359- 380. 
 
Edelman, B. & Richardson, J.T . (2003).  Falun Gong and the law: Development of legal social control in 
China. Nova Religio , 6(2), pp. 312- 331.      
 Edelman, B., Dillehay, R.C., Bennett, D., & Hinxman, C. (2002). The difficulties of collecting data in a local 
justice system . Presented at the annual meeting of the Pacific Sociological Association, Vancouver, Canada.  
 
Edelman, B. & Richardson, J.T. (2002). Falun Gong and the law .  Presented at the annual meeting of the 
Society fo r the Study of Religion, Houston, TX.  
 
Edelman, B. & Richardson, J.T. (2002). The crackdown on the Falun Gong: Western influence and the 
development of the anti -cult movement in China .  Presented at the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion 
annual conference, Salt Lake City, Utah.  
 
Richardson, J.T. & Edelman, B. (2001). Cult controversies and legal developments in Japan and China. 
Presented at the annual conference on “New Religions,” Heidelberg, Germany.  
  
 
EDUCATION  
LL.M.,  International Law, with Distinction, University of Kent, Canterbury, United Kingdom  2004  
 
Ph.D.,  Interdisciplinary Social Psychology, University of Nevada, Reno, Nevada  2003  
 
B.S., Magna Cum Laude, Psychology, Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida  1997  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 