Filed:04/14/2025 09:45:07
FourthJudicialDistrict,AdaCounty
TrentTripple,ClerkoftheCourt
By:DeputyClerk-
Waters,Renee
LATAHCOUNTYPROSECUTOR'S OFFICE
WILLIAM W.THOMPSON, JR.,ISBNo.2613
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
ASHLEYS.JENNINGS, ISBNo.8491
SENIORDEPUTYPROSECUTING ATTORNEY
JOSHUAD.HURWIT, ISB.No.9527
SPECIALDEPUTYPROSECUTING ATTORNEY
LatahCountyCourthouse
522S.AdamsStreet,Ste.211
Moscow, ID83843
Phone:(208)883-2246
paservice@latahcountyid.gov
INTHEDISTRICT COURTOFTHEFOURTHDISTRICT OFTHE
STATEOFIDAHO,INANDFORTHECOUNTYOFADA
CaseNo.CR01-24-3 1665
STATE'STRIALBRIEFSTATEOFIDAHO,
Plaintiff,
BRYANC.KOHBERGER,
Defendant.V
TO:THEDEFENDANT, BRYANCHRISTOPHER KOHBERGER,
ANDCOUNSEL
PLEASETAKENOTICEthattheundersigned, pursuant totheCourt'sScheduling Order
inthiscase,submitsthisTrialBriefinanticipation oftrial,whichbeginsJuly21,2025,withjury
selection.
STATE'STRIALBRIEF 1STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  2 INTRODUCTION 
 In the early  morning hours on November 13, 2022, D efendant, Bryan C. Kohberger, a 
Ph.D. student in Criminology at Washington State University (WSU) , drove his car  
approximately ten  miles from his apartment complex in Pullman, Washington , to the campus of 
the University of Idaho (UI) in Moscow, Idaho. D efendant circled a hou se near the UI campus  at 
1122 King Road several times before he parked his car, entered that house, and used a military 
style knife to stab to death the following UI  students: Ethan Chapin, Kaylee Goncalves, Xana 
Kernodle, and Madison Mogen. For this, D efendant is charged with burglary and four counts of 
first-degree  murder . The State is seeking the death penalty if D efendant is convicted of any of 
the first -degree murder counts.  
 The trial in this case will tell the story of D efendant’s crimes and the investigation that led 
to his arrest. The evidence will prove to the jury not only that D efendant is guilty beyond a 
reasonable doubt of all crimes charged in the Indictment, but also that, given all relevant facts and 
circumstances, D efendant’s crimes warrant the death penalty.   
THE CHARGES AND DEATH PENALTY 
The Grand Jury returned an Indictment that charges D efendant with the following crimes: 
• Count I:  burglary in violation of Idaho Code § 18 -1401 and  1403 f or entering 1122 
King Road with the intent to commit murder; 
• Count II:  first degree murder in violation of Idaho Code § 18- 4001–4004 for the 
killing of Madison Mogen;  
• Count III: first degree murder in violat ion of Idaho Code § 18- 4001–4004 for the 
killing of Kaylee Goncalves;  
• Count IV: first degree murder in violation of Idaho Code § 18- 4001–4004 for the 
killing of Xana Kernodle; and STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  3 • Count V: first degree murder in violation of Idaho Code § 18- 4001–4004 for t he 
killing of Ethan Chapin. 
The elements of these crimes are well -established under Idaho law and are presented in the 
State’s Requested  Jury Instructions. 
The State has provided notice of intent to seek the death penalty based on four aggravating 
circumst ances under Idaho Code § 19- 2515(9) : 
• at the time the murder was committed D efendant also committed another murder  (§ 19-
2515(9)(b) ); and/or  
• the murder was especially heinous, atrocious or cruel, manifesting exceptional 
depravity ( § 19- 2515(9)( e)); and/or  
• by the murder, or circumstances surrounding its commission, Defendant exhibited utter 
disregard for human life  (§ 19- 2515(9)( f)); and/or  
• Defendant, by his conduct, whether such conduct was before, during or after the 
commission of the murder at hand, has exhibited a propensity to commit murder which 
will probably constitute a continuing threat to society ( § 19- 2515(9)( i)). 
The State’s Requested Jury  Instructions also cover the penalty phase.  
THE STATE’S CASE- IN-CHIEF  
I. Opening Statement  
As detailed below, the State’s case- in-chief will involve presenting significant amounts of 
evidence over the course of many weeks , if not months . During opening statements, the State 
intends to show the jury certain selected exhibits and certain jury instruc tions to facilitate the 
State’s overview of the evidence.   
Pursuant to the Court’s Redacted Order Governing Further Criminal Proceedings and 
Notice of Trial Setting dated October 9, 2024 (hereinafter , the “Scheduling Order”), the parties 
are required to f ile a log of objections to exhibits  by May 14, 2025. Accordingly, t he State should STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  4 know whether Defendant objects to the exhibits it intends to show during its opening statement 
and will alert the Court —through motions  in limine  or other mechanism  preferred by the Court —
of potential disputes  so that the Court can have the opportunity to resolve them p rior to trial. 
II. Witness Testimony  
The State is currently finalizing its Witness  List and will be  as inclusive  as possible to 
ensure that it is prepared to establish  proper foundation for all testimony and exhibits.  The State 
may not need to call all  of the  witnesses on the forthcoming Witness List as it lear ns of 
Defendant’s evidentiary objections and the Court has the opportunity to resolve any  disputes. 
A. Categories of Witnesses  
The State’s  witnesses generally can be organized into the following categories:  
1. Roommates , Friends , Acquaintances, and Contacts  of Murder Victims  
The State intends to call members of the UI  and Moscow community who knew or had 
contact with the murder victims at relevant times, including on the night of the murders. Such 
witnesses will include the victims’ surviving roommates —who are victims of D efendant’s 
burglary offense —and friends who responded to the  house around noon on November 13, 2022. 
The State will also call other individuals who had contact with the victims on t he preceding days 
up to the night of the murders to establish the timeline of events.  
2. Law Enforcement Officers and Investigators  
The State will call law enforcement officers who first responded to 1122 King Road. The 
State will also call investigators who were responsible for and participated in the extensive investigation that led to the charges in this case. These witnesses will include (i) officers and detectives with the Moscow Police Department (MPD) , (ii) investigators with the Idaho State STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  5 Police (ISP ), (iii) agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and (iv) law 
enforcement officers who had contact with D efendant at relevant times, including upon his arrest 
in Pennsylvania. 
3. Forensic Analysts/Experts  
The State will call law enforcement specialists who, collectively, conducted the forensic 
investigations in this case. These include those who possess specialized knowledge, skills, 
experience, training, and education in the following fields: (i) electronic device review and data extraction, (i i) cellular data analytics, (iii) DNA testing and analysis, and (iv) financial records 
forensics. These witnesses are primarily employed by MPD , ISP, or the FBI. To the extent 
necessary, the State previously disclosed these witnesses through its expert wit ness disclosures.    
4. Family Members of Defendant  
The State intends to call family members of D efendant for the purpose of establishing 
certain facts before Defendant moved to Pullman in late summer 2022, as well as facts about Defendant’s conduct when he returned home to Pennsylvania  in December 2022 . The nature of 
this testimony has been disclosed through reports of interviews.  
5. Foundational Witnesses  
The State will be prepared to call all witnesses necessary to authenticate the exhibits it 
will introduce at trial. This will include calling witnesses who can attest to the chain of custody for physical exhibits and those who can establish that certain documents are business records (and therefore not subject to exclusion as hearsay). Depending on any objecti ons that D efendant 
makes to the State’s exhibits, the State may raise authentication and/or foundation disputes with the Court in an attempt to streamline the number of necessary foundational witnesses. STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  6 B. Considerations and Requests Regarding Individual Witnesses  
1. Privacy for Testifying Victim- Witnesses  
The State will call two roommates  of the murder victims  who were present in the 1122 
King Roa d house during the murders. These witnesses were  nineteen years old at the time of the 
murders . They have been understandably traumatized by what transpired and are victims of the 
burglary offense. T hey have received death threats , have been the subject of conspiracy theories, 
and have been harassed online in ways  that continue to affect  their privacy interests and 
well-being. The State is concerned that , if video of these witnesses ’ testimony is broadcast o n the 
livestream, individuals outside of court could screen capture images of them  and circulate them 
on the internet  in harmful ways . Accordingly, t he State requests that the Court pause the video 
livestream (but not the audio , if possible ) during the testimony of these victim- witnesses to 
protect their privacy to the extent possible.   
The Court should grant the State’s request pursuant to Idaho Court  Administrative Rule 
32 and Rule  611(a) of the Idaho Rules of Evidence. The  former grants courts the discretion to 
adopt trial procedures that provide public access to court proceedings while  “minimiz[ing]  the 
risk of injury to individuals ” and “p rotect [ing] individual privacy rights and interests .”  I.C.A.R. 
32(a)(5)- (6); see State v. Gurney, 272 P.3d 474, 476 ( Idaho 2012).  Rule 611(a) provides:  
The court should exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of 
examining witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:  
 
(1) make those procedures effective for determining the truth;  
 
(2) avoid wasting time; and  
 
(3) protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment . 
 
I.R.E. 611(a) (emphasis added).  STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  7 As an initial matter, the State’s request does not prevent  public access to the witnesses’ 
testimony . The public will be able to hear their testimony, and m embers of the public who are 
present in the co urtroom will be able to see the witnesses as they  testify . This is consistent with 
the vast majority of trials in the State of Idaho, which are not livestreamed.   
Effectively, the State’s request simply prevents the images  of the witnesses from being 
re-recorded and disseminated in potentially harmful ways. The witnesses’ voices and the content 
of their testimony will still be available on the livestream. As such, the State’s request presents 
“the least restrictive exception from disclosure ” and is consist ent with the policies underlying 
Rule 32.1  See I.C.A.R. 32(i)(3).  
2. Support for Victim -Witnesses, Victims, and Young Witnesses  
Several witnesses —namely, the surviving roommates  and other friends of the victims —
are young people whose lives have been upended by the trauma of the murders and the aftermath caused by the intense media attention on this case. Some are represented by counsel and most have family members who intend to a ttend the trial to support them when they testify.  
Anticipating that courtroom seating may be scarce, the State asks that the Court allow for counsel and family members of these witnesses to be seated in the courtroom when the witnesses testify. The State  will provide advance notice to the Court and its staff .  
3. Lead Case Investigators at Counsel Table  
The State is designating Moscow Police Department  (MPD) Corporal Brett Payne and ISP 
Sergeant  Darren  Gilbertson as its advisory witnesses. See Idaho R. Evid. 615(a)(2)- (3). Pursuant 
 
1  As applied to sealing or redacting of “court  records, ” Rule 32 contemplates a motion and 
a finding by a court.  The State stands ready to make  a formal motion if the Court prefers.   STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  8 to a stipulation, the  parties agree that these  investigators may be present in the courtroom  during 
all witness testimony . Accordingly, the State intends for these investigators to be present at counsel 
table to advise the prosecut ors and assist in trial logistics.  
4. Segmented Testimony by Investigators  and Witnesses  
The State intends to present the testimony of investigators and other witnesses in 
segments to assist the State in presenting its chosen narrative of the evidence . This w ill also 
assist the jury in understanding the progression of the investigation at issue. Pursuant to Idaho 
Rule of Evidence  611(a), the Court should allow this procedure to “ make the interrogation and 
presentation [of witnesses] effective for the ascertain ment of the truth .” There will be  no 
prejudice to D efendant because each time one of these witnesses testifies, they w ill be subject to 
cross examination at that time on the subjects covered in the portion of their testimony just 
presented.  Certain witnesses may also be called out of order to accommodate travel schedules or 
to allow them to subsequently be present in the courtroom after their testimony.  
5. Exchange of Witness Schedule  
The parties are discussing a procedure by which the State would notify D efendant as to 
the anticipated timing and the order of witnesses it intends to call  as the State presents its case -
in-chief . The State is willing to work with D efendant in this way but will request that the same 
procedure apply during Defendant’s case.  
III. Exhibits to be Introduced 
The State is currently finalizing its Exhibit List and will be as  inclusive as possible to 
ensure that it meets its burden of proof as to each element of each charged offense. The State may not need to introduce all exhibits on the forthcoming Exhibit List as it learns of D efendant’s STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  9 evidentiary objections and the Court  has the opportunity to resolve any  disputes. 
A. Categories of Exhibits  
The State’s exhibits generally can be organized into the following categories:  
1. Physical Items  
The State will introduce physical items obtained throughout the investigation, including 
(but not limited to) items taken from 1122 King Road, Defendant’s apartment in Washington, 
Defendant’s parents’ residence in Pennsylvania, and evidence gathered from D efendant upon his 
arrest. The State also will be prepared to introduce, as necessary, physical samples that were 
tested by the law enforcement forensic laboratories.  
2. Photographs , Maps, and Diagrams  
The State will introduce photographs of (1) the initial c rime scene and related searches of 
the crime scene; (2) the victims’ autopsies; (3) the search of Defendant’s residence in Pullman; (4) 
the search of Defendant’s parents’ residence in Pennsylvania; and (5) the search of Defendant’s 
vehicle and person. The State will also introduce maps generated from satellite images to show 
relevant locations and D efendant’s path of travel at relevant times.  The State will also introduce 
diagrams of the 1122 King Road house and the crime scene.  
3. Audio and Video Files  
The St ate will introduce the audio of the 911 telephone call that alerted authorities to the 
crime scene. In addition, the State will introduce (1) body camera footage for law enforcement officers responding to the scene; (2) body camera footage of a traffic sto p of Defendant  several 
months prior to night of the murders ; (3) surveillance of a white sedan around the area of the 
crime scene and path of travel following the murders .  The State may elect to introduce only STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  10 portions of the video files for purposes of e fficiency.  
4. Background Records  
The State will introduce various records to establish evidentiary facts such as identity, 
residency, education, and other background characteristics for Defendant and victims.  
5. Forensic Data  
The State will introduce data generated by law enforcement forensic analysts who 
processed evidence in the case.  Such exhibits will be used as foundation for these witnesses’ 
testimony as to their findings . 
6. Summary Exhibits  
The State will introduce summaries of voluminous evidence, e.g., financial records,  
phone records, etc.  which are admissible under Rule 1006 of the Idaho Rules of Evidence.  
B. Considerations and Request Regarding Specific Exhibits  
1. In Life Photos of Victims  
The State intends to introduce one photograph of each of  the d eceased victims in this case 
while they were still living (“in life” photos) to prove the obvious but necessary fact that they were human beings. See Idaho Criminal Jury Instructions 701 (Murder Defined). In State v. 
Garcia , 462 P.3d 1125 (Idaho 2019), the  Idaho Supreme Court ruled that the trial court did not 
abuse its discretion by permitting the State to introduce “in life” photographs of a murder victim because the photographs  were relevant to  prove that  the victim was a human being and to 
establish ide ntity. Id.  at 1135. It did not matter that the evidence was not disputed—it was still 
material and relevant.  Id.  
The State is cognizant, however, of the Garcia  Court’s finding that the prosecution in its  STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  11 case- in-chief  presented testimony that went beyond relevant  background information and called 
for a witness to describe the positive  attributes of the victim.  Id.  at 1136- 37. During the guilt 
phase,  the State will endeavor to quickly introduce background facts about t he deceased victims, 
including the in life photos  without eliciting opinions about them . 
2. Physical Items  
The State will present various physical items as exhibits, including items from the crime 
scene, items seized from Defendant, and items that were the basis of forensic examinations ( e.g., 
electronic devices and swabs and samples of biological materials that were tested). To expedite 
the trial, the State intends to use photographs of these physical items as much as possible, subject to the Court’s rulings on any objections from D efendant as to authenticity, chain of custody, or  
foundation. The State will endeavor to raise such issues with the Court in advance of trial after it receives D efendant’s objections to the  Exhibit List.  
2. Graphic Photographs  
The State necessarily will have to show graphic and disturbing images of  the crime scene 
and of the deceased victims’ bodies. The S tate will be selective in doing so and will not present 
unduly cumulative exhibits. Prior to calling a witness through which graphic photographs will be introduced, the State will provide advance warning to the Court and to the families of the deceased victims so that family members can decide whether to leave the courtroom.  
The State also requests that the Court pau se the video of the livestream and turn off the 
public courtroom monitors when graphic exhibits are published to the jury. Again, as with the testimony of the surviving housemates, the State is concerned that individuals  could capture  
these images and dist ribute them in harmful ways. The C ourt has the discretion to grant this STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  12 request under Idaho Court Administrative Rule 32(a)(5) -(6). T he State understand s at least one 
court ha s adopted a similar procedure in  another capital murder case that was  livestreame d. 
3. Self-Authenticating Records  
Many of the State’s exhibits are self -authenticating records. Where applicable, the State 
is gather ing records certifications to support the admission of these exhibits pursuant to Rule 902 
of the Idaho Rules of Evidence  and will disclose these certifications to D efendant . To the extent 
that D efendant still lodges objections to these exhibits based on authentication or foundation, the 
State will seek to raise them with the Court prior to trial to avoid using trial time to reso lve such 
disputes.   
4. Demonstrative Exhibits  
The State anticipates some of its witnesses will use demonstrative exhibits to assist the 
jury in understanding their testimony and the evidence.  The State  understands that 
demonstrative exhibits do not need to be disclosed as part of the Exhibit List but, at the Court’s 
discretion, will be prepared to disclose demonstrative aids before they are used by a witness.  Accordingly, the State asks that D efendant also disclose any demonstrative aids prior to their use 
in cross -examination or by a defense witness.  
IV. Foundat ion for  Cross -Examination  
At the motions hearing on April 9, 2025, the Court alluded to the need for counsel to 
have a proper foundation for questions asked on cross -examination. The State will be prepared to 
object on this basis if D efendant’s attorneys a sk improper questions and provides the following 
case law as support:  
• State v. Cofer , 249 P.2d 197, 202 (Idaho 1952):  ruling that the district court did not 
abuse its discretion in precluding cross -examination questions where “a witness is so  STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  13 questioned w ithout any basis for the inferences ” in counsel’s questions.  
• State v. Buck , 2023 WL 6133215, at *23- 25 (Idaho Ct. App. Sep. 20, 2023) 
(unpublished) (review granted Oct. 23, 2024) :  finding, in a murder case, that the trial 
court did not err in precluding defense counsel from cross -examining witnesses about 
unsubstantiated theories  of an alternative perpetrator (citing State v. Meister , 220 P.3d 
1055, 1058- 59 (2009) ); 
• State v. Harvey , 129 P.3d 1276, 1279- 80 (Idaho Ct. App. 2006) :  upholding district 
court’s decision to preclude cross -examination on a topic without an adequate offer of 
proof by defendant’s counsel. 
• State v. Nab, 742 P.2d 423, 429 (Idaho Ct. App. 1987):  finding no error where 
district court sustained objection to question on cross -exam ination where “[n] othing 
was offered to show a good faith basis ” for the question or “ that the inquiry was more 
than a fishing expedition.”  
V. Penalty Phase  
Defendant disclosed six  penalty phase experts on March 31 , 2025, with over 200 pages of 
reports and ex hibits . On April 2 , 2025, the State filed a request for D efendant to supplement this 
disclosure . Defense counsel is in  the process of doing so. Additionally, on April 8 , 2025, 
Defendant made additional mitigation  disclosures that may be relevant to anticipated expert 
testimony regarding D efendant’s mental condition.     
The State is s till digesting these disclosures , determining  what experts it needs to consult 
with, and is in the process of deciding what type of rebuttal expert testimony it will seek to 
present. The State does intend to proceed with its own mental examination of D efendant and will 
file a motion for a mental condition examination pursuant to Idaho Code 18 -207. The State may 
also need to seek from t he Court an extension to provide expert disclosures so that its expert(s) 
can review D efendant’s disclosures and conduct needed evaluation(s) of Defendant.  
CONCLUSION 
 The State appreciates the opportunity to raise the foregoing considerations with the STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  14 
Court . It stands ready to address any questions that the Court may have and to assist with any 
procedures the Court would like to implement to ensure an efficient and fair trial that protects 
Defendant’s  rights, the rights of the  victim- witnesses and the  fami lies of the  deceased  victims, 
the rights of the public and press, and the interests of the people of Latah County and the State of Idaho in achieving  justice in this case.  
DATED this 14th day of April  2025. 
 
              
WILLIAM W. THOMPSON, JR.    ASHLEY JENNINGS   
Latah County P rosecuting Attorney    Senior D eputy Prosecuting Attorney  
           
JOSHUA D. HURWIT  
Special Deputy Prosecuting Attorney  
  STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  15 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
 
I hereby certify that true and correct copies of the STATE’S TRIAL BRIEF  were served 
on the following in the manner indicated below:  
Anne  Taylor  
Attorney at Law  
PO Box 2347  
Coeur d’ Alene, ID 83816  
info@annetaylorlaw.com   
 ☐ Mailed  
☒ E-filed & Served / E -mailed  
☐ Faxed  
☐ Hand Delivered  
 
 Dated this  14th day of April  2025. 
 
 
  
  