Filed:04/14/2025 09:14:17
FourthJudicialDistrict,AdaCounty
AnneTaylorLaw,PLLC TrentTripple,ClerkoftheCourt
AnneC.Taylor,Attorney atLaw By:DeputyClerk-
Waters,Renee
POBox2347,
Coeurd'Alene,Idaho83816
Phone:(208)512-9611
iCourtEmail:info@annetaylorlaw.com
ElisaG.Massoth, PLLC
Attorney atLaw
P.O.Box1003
Payette,Idaho83661
Phone:(208)642-3797; Fax:(208)642-3799
BickaBarlow
ProHacVice
2358MarketStreet
SanFrancisco, CA94114
Phone:(415)553-4110
Assigned Attorneys:
AnneC.Taylor,Attorney atLaw,BarNumber: 5836
ElisaG.Massoth, Attorney atLaw,BarNumber: 5647
BickaBarlow,Attorney atLaw,CABarNumber: 178723
JayW.Logsdon, FirstDistrictPublicDefender, BarNumber: 8759
INTHEDISTRICT COURTOFTHEFOURTHJUDICIAL DISTRICT OFTHE
STATEOFIDAHO,INANDFORTHECOUNTYOFADA
CASENUMBER CR01-24-31665
DEFENDANT?'S TRIALBRIEFSTATEOFIDAHO,
Plaintiff,
BRYANC.KOHBERGER,
DefendantV.
COMESNOW,BryanC.Kohberger, byandthroughhisattorneys ofrecord,submitsthis
trialbriefinanticipation oftheJuryTrialscheduled tocommence onAugust11,2025,at8:30
a.m.withvoirdirecommencing onJuly30,2025at9:00a.m.TheCourtsetadateoftrial
briefing beforeeachsidehasdisclosed itsexhibits. Giventhesixty-eight terabytes of
unorganized discovery, thedefense's inabilitytohaveitallreviewed, theongoingdisputes over
incomplete expertopiniondisclosures, andwhatever exhibitstheStatelistsasthoseitwillseek
DEFENDANT'S TRIALBRIEF Page1DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 2 to admit at trial, this trial briefing is submitted in light of that background.  The underlying 
alleged facts of the case are well known to the Court and are not reiterated.  
INDICTMENT  
  A grand jury indictment on May 16, 2023, returned against Mr. Kohberger for the 
charges of : Burglary, Idaho Code  §§18-1401, 1403, a Felony in Count  I, Murder in the First 
Degree, Idaho Code  §§18 -4001, 4002, 4003, 4004, a Felony in Count  II, Murder in the First 
Degree, Idaho Code  §§18 -4001, 4002, 4003, 4004, a Felony in Count  III, Murder in the First 
Degree, I daho Code §§18 -4001, 4002, 4003, 4004, a Felony in Count  IV, Murder in the First 
Degree, Idaho Code §§18 -4001, 4002, 4003, 4004, a Felony in Count V.  
On June 26, 2023, the State filed a Notice Pursuant to Idaho Code §18- 4004A providing 
the required notification of the State’s intent to seek the death penalty.  
    JURY SELECTION  
Jury selection, set to begin on July 30, 2025, will commence after juror questionnaires 
have been filled out and provided to counsel.  The final Juror Questionnaire is yet to be 
determined.  Mr. Kohberger has filed a motion seeking to prevent the use of the “magic 
question” and other procedures for jury selection.  Mr. Kohberger filed a Motion on October 16, 
2024 requesting proper voir dire in his Capital case; he reiterates his request for individual and sequestered voir dire as it relates to potential juror views on capital punishment as well as case related information .  
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES  
 It is expected that issues surrounding relevance, remoteness, and complete defense will 
be raised throughout trial. Proof of alibi, alternate perpetrators, and the exclusion of expert opinions due to incomplete expert disclosures will be an issue throughout trial. In the various  
motions to compel, death penalty motions, suppression motions and motions in limine  filed with 
the Court, many evidentiary issues have been raised. Such evidentiary issues include: DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 3  1. Inflammatory Evidence.  Preventing the introduction of i nflammatory evidence  such as 
irrelevant and unfairly prejudicial photographs, testimony, and exhibits  is the  subject of 
Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 1 Re: Inflammatory Evidence. Mr. Kohberger  contends 
that his right to a fair trial free from irrelevant, cumulative, and unfairly prejudicial 
evidence as guaranteed by the State and Federal Constitution s prevent the State from 
introducing evidence that cumulatively highlights gruesome exhibits or elicits overly emotional testimony.  Mr. Kohberger heard the Court’s comments at hearing with optimism but will, if necessary, be ready to object, and follow  with a motion, to ensure 
his trial is fair.    
2. Excluding Experts. Mr. Kohberger seeks to exclude e xpert testimony that is vague , 
undisclosed, and improper . Expert testimony and expert disclosures have been the subject 
of several motions including:   (a) Defendant’s Motion to Compel I.C.R. 16(b)(7) Material 
and for Sanctions; (b) Defendant’s Motion to Extend Time to Disclose Defendant’s Guilt 
Phase Experts; ( c) Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 2 Re: Vague and Undisclosed Expert 
Testimony ; (d) Defendant’s Motion to Preclude the Death Penalty and Adopt Other 
Necessary Procedures Due to the State’s Numerous Disclosure Violations . Mr. 
Kohberger awaits the Court’s decision on his motion to exclude expert opinions due to incomplete expert disclosures  and depending on the Court’s decision to exclude late, 
vague and undisclosed opinions these will be ongoing issue s throughout trial. 
3. Murder Terms.  Use of the words “murder,” “murderer,” “murdered,” “murder weapon,” 
and similar forms of the word “murder” applied to Bryan Kohberger during the trial was the subject of a Motion in Limine.  Mr. Kohberger understood the Court’s indication that labeling Mr. Kohberger “murderer” would be considered argument and the proper place for argument is in closing argument.  Mr. Kohberger is optimistic the case will be tried in accordance with the Court’s statements, but will be ready to object, and follow with an appropriate motion, to ensure his trial is fair.   DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 4  4. Psychopath and Sociopath Terms. Use of the terms “psychopath” and “sociopath” i s the 
subject of Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 4 Re: Using the Terms Psychopath or 
Sociopath. Mr. Kohberger  understands the State has no intention of utilizing such labels.  
Mr. Kohberger is optimistic the case will be tried without the use of such terms.  He will be ready to object, and follow with an appropriate motion, to ensure his trial is fair.  
5. Inconclusive Data. Inconclusive data about the statistical analysis of Item 13.1, fingernail 
scrapings , is the subject of Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 5 Re: Inconclusive Data. Mr. 
Kohberger has now reviewed the State’s newest expert disclosure and based on the work 
of both the State’s expert and his own expert, he has been excluded as a source of DNA.  Testimony about that lab testing must comport with both experts reviewing the sample and opining Mr. Kohberger is excluded.   Mr. Kohberger understands the State’s position 
to now be that the evidence does in fact exclude Mr. Kohberger as a source of any  DNA 
in sample 13.1.  T estimony contrary to that would violate his Federal and State 
Constitutional rights to due process, fair trial, and would be false testimony.   
6. Touch or Contact DNA. Testimony of Rylene Nowlin and any testimony referencing the 
terms “touch” or “contact” DNA or that purport s to be an opinion of the means or 
mechanism for DNA being placed on the sheath by any witness called to testify about DNA was the subject of Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 6 Re:  Rylene Nowlin and 
Reference “Touch” and “Contact” DNA.  Mr. Kohberger sought to exclude any use of the 
language “touch” and “contact” in the context of the DNA testing of the sheath and any opinion of how and when the DNA on the sheath was deposited.  While the Court did not 
enter an order excluding the language, the  Court’s suggestion that  it should not be used to 
avoid confusion and prejudice to Mr. Kohberger is well taken.  His objection will be 
lodged during trial should the use of the phrase come up. 
7. Bushy Eyebrows. Witness identification by “bushy eyebrows” i s the subject of 
Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 7 Re: Witness Identification by Bushy Eyebrows. Mr. DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 5 Kohberger sought to bar witness DM from using the words “bushy eyebrows” or 
identifying him in that manner. He also s ought to keep the State from acting as an 
identifying witness by attempting to bolster DM’s testimony with a photo of Mr. 
Kohberger taken the morning of November 13, 2022 and arguing that it is their interpretation that the “bushy eyebrows” described by DM are consistent with those in the photo.  Should the Court allow this testimony and procedure, Mr. Kohberger will 
object during trial.   
8. I.R.E. 404(b) Evidence. 404(b) evidence has been the subject of a notice, a motion and a 
stipulation  including: ( a) State’s Notice of Intent to Use I.R.E. 404(b) Evidence; (b) 
Defendant’s Motion in Limine #8 Re: Unnoticed 404b Evidence ; and (c) Sealed 
Stipulated Agreement of the Parties to Not Mention 2014 Cell Phone Incident During Trial . In response to Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 8, the State has advised the Court 
and Counsel that it intends to comply with the application of the Idaho Rules of Evidence  
in regard to any proposed I.R.E. 404(b). Additionally, in a sealed stipulation, the parties 
agreed not to mention a 2014 cell phone incident during trial. That incident involved Mr. Kohberger’s taking his sisters cellular phone to a kiosk at a mall in exchange for money. His father called police, the end result of which was a minor theft charge that was later 
expunged. The State has not indicated 404(b) evidence other than a traffic stop.  Mr. 
Kohberger will object and follow with an appropriate motion any other act evidence the 
State seeks to introduce that is unnoticed.  Mr. Kohberger will rely on State v. Whitaker , 
152 Idaho 945 ( Ct. App. 2012)  for the proposition that although Rule 404(b)  has its 
genesis in the common law rule that “the doing of a criminal act, not part of the issue, is 
not admissible as evidence of the doing of the criminal act charged,”  Grist,  147 Idaho  at 
52, 205 P.3d  at  1188 (citing  WIGMORE,  CODE  OF EVIDENCE  81 (3d ed.)), the rule 
expands this evidentiary bar beyond evidence of other crimes. The inclusion of the words 
“wrongs or acts” prohibits evidence of conduct beyond criminal offenses if it is proffered DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 6 for the purpose of showing a person's character and conforming behavior.  In Whitaker 
the court held that 404(b) is not limited to bad acts.  And in State v. Pena, 2016 WL 
49220337 (unreported)  the same appellate court said that “other act” evidence to prove a 
person’s character and conforming behavior falls under 404(b).  
9. Amazon Click Activity . Excluding Amazon evidence, purchase history, and “Amazon 
Click Activity”  (collectively “Amazon evidence”)  was the subject of Defendant’s Motion 
in Limine # 9 Re: Excluding Amazon Click Activity Evidence at Trial. The State’s 
methodology in obtaining, using, and producing Amazon evidence has been called into  
question by Mr. Kohberger who contends that this evidence should be excluded. To the 
extent the Court allows the evidence, Mr. Kohberger must be able to present expert testimony of David Howell to provide a complete defense .  Based on the Court’s ruling 
that this evidence will not be excluded at this juncture, Mr. Kohberger will confront the evidence through expert testimony.  He will also object to any expert opinion testimony by Mr. Shane Cox or SA Michael Douglass, as the  State claims they are lay witnesses 
and not experts.   
10. Investigative Genetic Genealogy (IGG).  Investigative Genetic Genealogy  (IGG)  evidence 
has been the subject of at least six  motions including: (a) Defendant’s Third Motion to 
Compel; (b) Defendant’s Fifth Motion to Compel Discovery; (c) Defendant’s Seventh Motion to Compel  (d) Defendant’s Motion to Suppress Re: Genetic Information ; (e) 
State’s Motion in Limine Re: Investigative Genetic Genealogy ; and ( f) Defendant’s 
Motion in Limine # 11 Re:  Exclude IGG Evidence . The State’s methodology in 
obtaining, using, and producing IGG evidence has been litigated through discovery and 
motion to compel and finally through motion to suppress.  Mr. Kohberger  learned of 
undisclosed discovery during the suppression hearing and was refused access.  As such, Mr. Kohberger contends that IGG evidence should be excluded because he could not 
fully understand and litigate the issues . At this time, the State has agreed to proceed DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 7  without use of the IGG evidence and introduce evidence of a generic tip.  Both sides are 
working towards an agreed upon special jury instruction on the tip evidence to avoid 
speculation by the jury as to the source and nature of the tip. 
11. Vehicle Identification.  Exclusion of the State referring to all surveillance footage the y 
intend to offer as “suspect vehicle number 1” was the subject of  Defendant’s Motion in 
Limine # 12 Re: Make and Model of Suspect Vehicle. Mr. Kohberger sought to exclude 
this evidence pursuant to specific rules of evidence and based on his Federal and State constitutional rights.   His motion was not  directed at the testimony of the State’s expert 
SA Imel, but rather to exclude the State from arguing, and other witnesses from saying that all depictions of vehicles were the same vehicle.  Based on the Court’s questioning, Mr. Kohberger must be able to explore with SA Imel the year range he was most comfortable with based on the 1125 Ridge Road footage; which videos allowed identification of makes and models; and which videos caused him to focus on 2014- 2016 
years.  The actual evidence provides a less clear trail and Mr. Kohberger, in exercising his confrontation rights must be allowed to explore  SA Imel’s opinion.  
12. Autism Spectrum Disorder(“ASD”). Mr. Kohberger’s Autism  Spectrum Disorder 
(“ASD”)  along with related issues wa s the subject of three pending motions:  (a) 
Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 13 Re: Conditions as Aggravator ; (b) State’s Motion in 
Limine Re: Neuropsychological and Psychiatric Evidence; and ( c) Defendant’s Motion to 
Strike Death Penalty  Re: Autism. Mr. Kohberger anticipates that the issues related to 
ASD will arise throughout trial with continued effort by the defense to explain ASD  and 
provide defenses related to state of mind.  
13. Statistical Analysis.  Statistical Analysis and related testimony  were the subject of 
Defendant’s Motion in Limine # 14 Re: Statistical Analysis.  Mr. Kohberger sought an 
order preventing the state from improperly eliciting statistical testimony.   Allowing such 
testimony would violate his Federal and State Constitutional rights to due process, fair DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 8  trial, effective assistance of counsel and confrontation of witnesses .  The State has agreed 
that they will not elicit testimony attempting to relate the Likelihood Ratio for the DNA 
on the sheath to the world population. 
14. 911 Recording and Transcript. The recording and transcript of the 911 call to Whitcom 
on November 13, 2022, was the subject of the ( Sealed ) State’s Motion in Limine Re: 911 
Call. Relying on exceptions to the hearsay rule and effect on listener, t he State seeks the 
admission of both the transcript and the recording. Based on his constitutional rights, Mr. 
Kohberger objects to the admission of the transcript and the recording.  
15. Alibi.  Alibi evidence is the subject of various  notices , discovery responses, and motions . 
On July 24, 2023, Mr. Kohberger filed his Notice of Alibi. Pursuant to court order , Mr. 
Kohberger filed a  Notice of Defendant’s Supplemental Response to State’s Alibi Demand 
on April 17, 2024. Previously, Mr. Kohberger’s alibi has been the subject of a motion to 
compel. More recently, the State filed a Motion in Limine Re: Alibi. Mr. Kohberger has 
met his statutory obligation of provide the State notice of corroboration of his partial alibi.  Mr. Kohberger stated, on the record, his concern about the State commenting on 
his Constitutional rights to remain silent.  He will make an appropriate motion should these comments be made in front of his jury.   
16. Alternative Perpetrator.  Alternative perpetrator evidence is the subject of the State’s 
Motion in Limine Re: Alternative Perpetrator Evidence . Mr. Kohberger anticipates 
making a proffer of evidence of alternative perpetrator s so that such evidence can be 
properly evaluated for relevancy and admissibility under the Idaho Rules of Evidence.  
Mr. Kohberger notes, as did the Court during the hearing, that those investigated do not all meet the factors required to be offered as an alternate perpetrator . Mr. Kohberger’s 
interpretation of the Court’s comments is that persons investigated by the State may be confronted through cross examination of law enforcement investigative work .   DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 9  17. Demonstrative Exhibits.  Demonstrative exhibit the “three- dimensional  model” of the 
1122 King Road residence (also known as a “doll house ”) was the subject of the State’s 
Motion in Limine Re: Demonstrative Exhibits. Mr. Kohberger will continue to object to 
the use of the doll house f or distinct reasons  arising from discovery issues .  Specifically, 
Mr. Kohberger objects to the use of the three -dimensional model house constructed in an 
undisclosed way on the grounds that it is irrelevant, prejudicial, cumulative, confusing, 
and misleading to the jury. 
18. Family in Courtroom. Family in the courtroom is the subject of the State’s Motion in 
Limine Re:  Immediate Family Members in the Courtroom. Mr. Kohberger stipulated in his brief  responding to the State’s motion in limine  that the individuals identified by the 
State be considered as “immediate family” of the victims  for purposes of being in the 
courtroom during trial . In his responsive briefing, Mr. Kohberger also asked the Court for 
guidance on proper c ourtroom decorum and guidance on excluding clothing or anything 
worn in the gallery that supports the death penalty and asked that Mr. Kohberger’s  family 
members  have  presence in the courtroom . The State represented to the Court that it had 
no intention of using its subpoena power to exclude Mr. Kohberger’s family. The Court asked the State to determine which family members it intends to call, work with the defense and call the person(s) out of order so that Mr. Kohberger’s family can be in the Court room.   
19. Death Penalty. The d eath penalty and issues related to the death penalty have been the 
subject of various motions . Such motions include: (a) thirteen separate death penalty 
motions with the topics ranging from arbitrariness to utter disregard;  (b) Sealed State’s 
Motion in Limine Re: Improper Death Penalty Comments; (c) Defendant’s Motion to Preclude the Death Penalty and Adopt Other Necessary Procedures Due to the State’s Numerous Disclosure Violations; ( d) Defendant’s Motion to Strike Death Penalty Re: 
Autism.  M ost of these motions have been decided  while others are pending, Mr. DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 10  Kohberger anticipates that the issues related to the death penalty will arise throughout  
trial, with continued effort to get the death penalty stricken.  
20. Self-Authenticating Records. Self-authentication of records was the subject of the Sealed 
State’s Motion in Limine Re:  Self -Authentication of Records in Reliance on I.R.E. 
803(6) and (8), I.R.E. 902(4) and (11) and/or I.R.E. 803(24) . In its ’ motion, the State 
seeks to admit self -authenticating records . The list of records that the State seeks to admit 
in this manner is lengthy and the volume of data is enormous . Mr. Kohberger has 
objected to giving the State a free pass for the admissibility  of records that are supposedly 
self-authenticating. After expending extensive time responding to the State’s extensive 
request for self -authentication of records, the State abandoned nearly half  of its request s.  
The Court noted the motion was not ready for hearing.  Mr. Kohberger will make 
objections and motions as appropriate.    
21. Text Messages and Testimony. Text messages DM  on November 13, 2022, and testimony 
of DM and B F regarding their conversation with each other on November 13, 2022, are 
the subject of the Sealed State’s Motion in Limine Re: Text Messages and Testimony. Mr. Kohberger contends that the way in which the State proposes using the text messages and testimony presents an incomplete picture . Mr. Kohberger has urged the C ourt to view 
the State’s request with consideration of the complete scope of conversations and cellular phone activity and  deny the State’s motion. 
22. AT&T Timing Advance Records . In the State’s Motion in Limine Re: AT&T Timing 
Advance Records, the State seeks to prohibit the defense from making any reference to the absence of AT&T Timing Advance Records (“TA reports”) for Bryan Kohberger . 
The defense contends that TA reports relating to Mr. Kohberger’s cell phone exist , at 
least seven days of record .  Mr. Kohberger has been provided with different explanations 
by the State regarding the existence of these records  throughout the course of his case, 
including sworn testimony in May of 2024  by Detective  Payne .  Mr. Kohberger has DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 11 offered testimony relating to these records base d on the explanations presented by the 
State.  The current defense affidavit presented at the in limine hearing,  is one with more 
detail  and based on the shifting State explanations.  Mr. Kohberger has worked with an 
expert with hands on experience about TA records.  He was not allowed to testify and 
explain what he knew about methods officers used in obtaining TA records.  Mr. Kohberger understands his ability to question the FBI agent outside the presence of the jury.    
23. Warrants. Warrants have been the subject of at least thirteen suppression motions ranging on topics from the arrest warrant to the search of Mr. Kohberger’s apartment in Pullman, Washington. While the Court has already ruled on these suppression motions, Mr. Kohberger anticipates that evidentiary issues related to the various warrants will be raised during trial in the form of inconsistent statements or the impeachment of the State witnesses.   Additionally, the State obtained similar information through the Grand Jury 
Subpoena process.  Mr.  Kohberger was prevented from receiving copies of the actual 
Grand Jury Subpoenas and therefore does not know the scope of information obtained.  He will make objections during trial based on the rules of evidence.   
24. Investigators in the Courtroom. The parties have stipulated and agreed that the defense 
will have both of their investigators present during the trial and the State will have its lead investigators from Moscow Police Department (Cpl. Brett Payne) and Idaho State Police (Sgt. Darren Gilbertson) present during the trial without limiting their ability to testify.   
EXHIBITS  
 In compliance with the modification of the Court’s scheduling order, Mr. Kohberger’s 
proposed exhibit list will be filed and provided to the State  by April 28, 2025. While Mr. 
Kohberger is making every effort to meet this deadline, all discovery has not been reviewed, the 68 terabytes of discovery is unorganized and overwhelming, the court has ordered the exchange DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 12 of exhibits to be disclosed one week apart , the State’s expert disclosures are incomplete and it is 
expected that subsequent exhibits will be identified and disclosed  beyond the Court’s April 28, 
2025 deadline.  
WITNESSES  
Expert Witnesses.  Mr. Kohberger  had disclosed exceedingly comprehensive expert 
reports and opinions.  Th e alleged facts are going to be very heavily contested issue by issue. Mr. 
Kohberger does intend to put on a very extensive defense case. He anticipates calling the 
following expert  witnesses  to testify  at trial depending on the State’s case in chief  during the 
guilt phase of trial: 
1. Ruth E. Ballard, Ph.D. 
2. Steven J. Becker  
3. Kathleen Bright-Birnbaum 
4. David Howell  
5. Matthew Noedel  
6. Rachel Lawson Orr, PsyD., ABPP- CN 
7. Carol L. Peden  
8. Kevin H. Peden 
9. Jennifer J. Hornyak Bracamontes 
10. Sy Ray  
11. Josiah P. Roloff 
12. Eileen P. Ryan, D.O. 
13. Gary Shutler, Ph.D. 
14. Thomas J. Slovenski 
15. Brent E. Turvey, Ph.D. 
16. Barbara C. Wolf, M.D. DEFENDANT’S TRIAL BRIEF          Page 13 
Lay Witnesses . Lay witnesses that Mr. Kohberger anticipates calling to testify during the 
guilt phase of trial will be disclosed by Defendant on April 21, 2025, by filing a witness list under 
seal in compliance with the Court’s scheduling order. To the extent other witnesses are identified a s 
68 terabytes of discovery are reviewed, the list will be supplemented. Penalty phase lay witness es 
will be disclosed by Mr. Kohberger on May 5, 2025, by filing a witness list under seal in compliance 
with the Court’s scheduling order. Investigation for the mitigation phase of the trial, if this case 
proceeds that far, is ongoing. The mitigation investigation began immediately upon Mr. Kohberger’s arrest , but it has been extremely difficult to get teachers, medical providers, family,  friends, 
neighbors, co-workers, and others to speak with the defense team . Generational records are still being 
located and gathered. As people and records are located, those will be disclosed and witness lists supplemented.  
 DATED this 14th day of April , 2025. 
 
        
_____________________________  __________________________________  
ANNE C. TAYLOR     E LISA G.  MASSOTH 
ANNE TAYLOR LAW, PLLC   ELISA G. MASSOTH, PLLC ATTORNEY  
 
   
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the 14
th day of April , 2025, addressed to: 
 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net 
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
       
      
 