LATAHCOUNTYPROSECUTOR'S OFFICE
WILLIAM W.THOMPSON, JR.,ISBNo,2613
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
ASHLEYS.JENNINGS, ISBNo.8491
SENIORDEPUTYPROSECUTING ATTORNEY
JOSHUAD.HURWIT, ISBNo.9527
SPECIALDEPUTYPROSECUTING ATTORNEY
LatahCountyCourthouse
P.O.Box8068
Moscow, ID83843
Phone:(208)883-2246
ISBNo.2613
paservice@latahcountyid.govFiled:04/25/2025 09:10:05
FourthJudicialDistrict,AdaCounty
TrentTripple,ClerkoftheCourt
By:DeputyClerk-
Waters,Renee
INTHEDISTRICT COURTOFTHEFOURTHJUDICIAL DISTRICT OF
THESTATEOFIDAHO,INANDFORTHECOUNTYOFADA
CaseNo.CR01-24-31665
DECLARATION OFJASOND.
GAGE,PH.D.
FiledUnderSealSTATEOFIDAHO,
Plaintiff,
BRYANC.KOHBERGER,
Defendant.V
COMESNOWJasonD.Gage,Ph.D.,whodeclaresandrepresents thefollowing insupport
oftheState'sMotionforanExamination ofDefendant Pursuant toIdahoCode§18-207andfor
MotionforanExtension ofTimetoComplete Rebuttal PenaltyPhaseExpertDisclosures:
1. Ireceived myPh.D.inClinicalPsychology fromUtahStateUniversity in2002.
Throughout graduate school,myprimary focuswasneurodevelopmental conditions suchas
ADHDandautism.IthenjoinedtheArmyandcompleted myinternship atTriplerArmyMedical
Centerwheremyprimaryfocuswasneuropsychology. Following myinternship, Iservedasthe
DECLARATION OFJASOND.GAGE,Ph.D. 1 
 
DECLARATION OF JASON D. GAGE, Ph.D.   2 
 Chief of Mental Health Services at Fort Lee, V A.  I then continued military service at Mountain 
Home Air Force Base for two years as a civilian psychologist.  Since 2008, I have specialized in 
neuropsychology and worked in private practice at Mountain States Counseling and Psychological 
Services.  I previously worked on a brain injury team at St. Alphonsus Rehabilitation Services 
from 2008 until 2022.  My current interests and specialties include traumatic brain injuries, 
aeromedical psychology, PTSD, and A DHD/ autism.  I am currently completing  approximately 
three neuropsychological evaluations for adult ADHD and/or adult autism per week.     
2. Attached hereto as Exhibit S-5 is my curriculum vitae . 
3. I have been engaged by the Latah County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office to evaluate 
the reports of Defendant ’s expert witnesses that relate to my professional field and to conduct a 
neuropsychological examination of Defendant . 
4. In my professional opinion, including broader testing of personality and 
psychopathology is important for several reasons.  First, these tests contain the most sensitive 
symptom validity measures that help determine if the examinee is reporting information in a 
consistent and reliabl e manner without significant over -reporting (exaggeration) or under -
reporting (defensiveness).  In her evaluation of Defendant , it does not appear that Dr. Rachel Orr, 
PsyD, ABPP -CN, administer ed any tests that formally evaluate symptom validity  to this level .  
These validity measures help ensure that the results of other self -report measures that do not 
contain validity scales are valid.  Second, not only is it important to rule in diagnoses such as those 
that have already been diagnosed, but also to rule out  diagnoses that could account for the same 
symptom presentation.  The diagnostic criterion for many disorders includes that the symptoms 
are not attributed to, or are not  better accounted for , by another condition.  Therefore, ruling out  
 
DECLARATION OF JASON D. GAGE, Ph.D.   3 
 those conditions is important.  Third, with autism specifically, there are certain personality 
characteristics that are common and supportive of that diagnosis.  Obtaining information about 
those characteristics helps ensure a proper diagnosis.  The batter y of testing that I propose would 
be significantly less than the testing battery already completed by Dr. Orr.   The battery would 
serve to supplement the battery that Dr. Orr completed and provide some additional valuable 
information.   In my professional  judgment, I would not administe r the Hare PCL -R that is 
discussed in the report of defense expert John F. Edens, Ph.D.  
5. In my professional opinion, it is inappropriate for several reasons to have any third 
parties in the room during my examination of defendant, even defendant’s attorney.  First, the 
normative population that the defendant  is compared to consists of individuals who completed 
testing one -on-one with an examiner without a third party  in the room with them.  Second, 
additional people can serve as a distraction and affect the validity of the results.  Some tests can 
only be given once since the defendant  will sta rt to learn the answers.  If distractions occur and 
that test has to be prematurely terminated, that data will no longer be valid.  Third, test security is 
of paramount importance as these testing measures influence decisions about public safety in many 
settings.   Section 9.11 of the American Psychological Association ethics code states “Psychologists 
make reasonable efforts to maintain the integrity and security of test materials and other assessment 
techniques consistent with law and contractual obligatio ns, and in a manner that permits adherence 
to this Ethics Code.”   Having third party individuals  present who d o not need to know all of the 
questions and answers jeopardizes test security for psychologists in the future.  This is one reason 
why raw data is only ethically transferred between psychologists.    
6. I have conducted at least three  mental examinations of defendants in criminal cases ,  
 
DECLARATION OF JASON D. GAGE, Ph.D.   4 
 including one murder case .  I have also conducted many examinations of plaintiffs and defendants 
in civil cases.  In these examinations, attorneys have n ever been present.   
7. On April 18, 2025, Dr. Orr , contacted me to provide the results from her 
neuropsychological testing of Defendant .  I received those materials on April 19, 2025.  
8. When I spoke with Dr. Orr, I inquired if any of Defendant ’s attorneys had been 
present in the room during her examination of Defendant .  She told me that they were not.   
 I declare under penalty of perjury pursuant to the law of the State of Idaho that the 
foregoing is true and correct.  
 RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED this 25 day of  April , 202 5. 
  
   
             
       JASON D. GAGE, Ph.D.  
04/25/2025  07:44:58 amSigPlus1CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
I hereby certify that true and correct copies of the DECLARATION OF JASON D. GAGE, 
Ph.D. were served on the following in the manner indicated below: 
Anne Taylor 
Attorney at Law 
PO Box 9000 
Coeur D Alene, ID 83 816-9000 □ Mailed 
~ E-filed & Served/ E-mailed 
D Faxed 
D Hand Delivered 
Dated this ~a5~-- day of April, 2025. 
DECLARATION OF JASON D. GAGE, Ph.D. 5 Updated 01/29/2025 
  
 1 CURRICULUM VITA E 
 
 
Jason D. Gage  
3380 W. Americana Terrace, Ste 320 ; Boise, ID 83706 
Work: (208) 375-6402; Fax: (208) 323-1850 
jgage@mscps.us  
 
 LICENSE AND EDUCATION  
    01/06- Present  Idaho State Board of Psychologist Examiners – License # PSY -202302 
05/04-10/06 Alabama Board of Examiners in Psychology – License #1297 05/02  Ph.D. Combined (Clinical/Counseling/School) Psychology 
Utah State University (APA Accredited)  
05/98  M.S. Clinical Psychology, University of Idaho   05/96          B.S. Psychology, University of Idaho  
 
WORK EXPERIENCE  
 
03/08- Present  Licensed Psychologist -Private Practitioner  
  Mountain States Counseling and Psychological Services 
  3380 W. Americana Terrace, Ste. 320; Boise, ID 83706 
Work as a private practice psychologist conducting psychological and neuropsychological evaluations for children, adolescents, and adults for a wide array of 
issues including traumatic brain injuries, dementia, sports concussion management, autism, ADHD/l earning disorders, personality, and psychopathology.  Conduct clinical 
and forensic work including evaluations for the FAA (credentialed) . Therapy specialties 
included anxiety, anger, PTSD, and ADHD. 
 
03/08-11/22 Contract Neuropsychol ogist  
Saint Alphonsus Rehabilitation Services (STARS)  
717 N. Liberty; Boise, ID 83704 
Conduct ed neuropsychological evaluations and treatment as part of the brain injury and 
rehabilitation team.     
03/06-03/08 Supervisory Clinical Psychologist  
  Mountain Home Air Force B ase; Mountain Home, ID 83648 
Served as a contract psychologist and Chief, Reintegration Health. Organiz ed all 
appropriate medical/ psychological screening and follow -up care for troops returning 
from deployments. In charge of “Battlemind” program that involved po st-
deployment/critical incident debriefings and preventative care for all Security Forces (military police) troops, Explosive Ordinance troops, and those heavily involved in convoys; debriefings completed for 68 troops. W orked with pilots and ot her special  
populations (e.g., air traffic control ). Conducted fitness for duty evaluations with all 
populations.  Conducted all neuropsychological screening and the ma jority of 
psychological assessments for the clinic. Implemented and served as head of child 
therapy services. Served as a Behavioral Health Consultant in family practice and Updated 01/29/2025 
  
 2 pediatric clinics providing health psychology interventions and consultation regarding 
treatment and referrals. Developed and conducted group therapy program for adults with 
ADHD an d related behavioral difficulties. Supervised mental health technicians, social 
workers, and an unlicensed psychologist. Organized a new  outcome assessment program 
to track ed treatment progress with standardized measures. Consulted with commanders, 
flight surgeons, primary care, and the ER.  
 
10/02-02/06 Chief, Community Mental Health Service  
Kenner Army Health Clinic; Fort Lee, VA 23801  
As the sole psychologist for Fort Lee, managed all psychological services provided to a 
population of approximately 9000 service members. Supervised all mental health technicians and staff. Provided neuropsychological and psychological assessment s, 
therapy, prevention services, consultation to commanders and primary care, training, and served on committees. Treated and supervised treatment of 250-300 patient contacts per 
month, doubling the standard expected for Army psychologists. Headed all post -
deployment and critical incident debriefings to include programs for special populations such as mortuary affairs and military po lice to include PTSD and concussion related 
symptomology. Implemented group therapy module for posttraumatic stress. Conducted 
fitness for duty evaluations. Expanded services and established telepsychiatry  program 
using video teleconference technology to help supplement staff shortage. Implemented coordinated care system among commanders, inpatient/intensive outpatient facilities and 
CMHS that decreased costs by over $500,000 in two years.   
 
06/01-07/02 Internship in Clinical Psychology -- APA Accredited  (2000+ hours) 
  Tripler Army Medical Center; Honolulu, HI 96859  
Commissioned and worked as an active -duty officer in the Army. Core experience 
included outpatient assessment and treatment of adults. Comple ted multiple rotations in 
neuropsychology and focus ed heavily on cognitive and psychological assessment. 
Completed rotations in health, and military psychology. Consulted in family practice, inpatient wards, and emergency room.  
 ADDITIONAL POSITIONS HELD 
 
11/12-10/20 Chairman  & Board Member , Idaho Board of Psychologist Examiners 
Appointed by the Governor to the licensing board for two  term s. 
 
2009-2014 Idaho Psychological Association 
  Served on the continuing education committee. 
 
ADDITIONAL CLINICAL EXPERIENCE  
 
08/98-05/01 Graduate Assistant  
 Department of Psychology and Center for Persons with Disabilities 
Utah State University , Logan UT 84322  
Completed approximately 2000 clinical hours conducting comprehensive multidisciplinary psychological and neuropsychological assessments with children .  
Focused on ADHD, learning disorders,  pervasive developmental disorders , and various Updated 01/29/2025 
  
 3 neurological conditions.  Conducted therapy with children/ adolescents.  Received formal  
training regarding interdisciplinary health  care and Americans with Disabilities Act.  
 
08/96-05/01 Graduate Assistant  
  Department of Psychology and University Counseling Centers  
  University of Idaho and Utah State University 
Completed approximately 1500 clinical hours  conducting therapy and psychological 
assessment with adults.  Performed comprehe nsive LD and ADHD assessment batteries 
with adults. 
 
01/97-08/98 Registered Counselor 
 Wilson Psychological Services, Pullman WA 99163 
Performed psychological /neuropsychological testing and counseling in a private 
practice. Assisted with custody evaluations and pre -employment screenings for police 
officers .  Supervised by Dr. Gregory Wilson.   
 
 
PROFESSIONAL MANUSCRIPTS AND PRESENTATIONS  
 
Professional Manuscripts 
Gage, J. D. & Wilson, L. J. (2000). Acceptability of interventions for attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder: A comparison of parents. Journal of Attention Disorders, 4(3), 174-182. 
 
Braun, C. C., Gage, J. D., Booth, C, & Rowe, A. L. (2001). Creating and evaluating alternatives 
to the 10 standard orders and 18 watch-out situations. International Journal of Cognitive Ergonomics, 
5(1), 23-35. 
 
Professional Presentations 
Gage, J.  D. (4 /27/18). Idaho Board of Psychologist Examiners: Legislation and Laws Update. 
Idaho Psychological Association. Meridian, ID.  
 Gage, J.  D. & Holley, H. (4/28/17). Idaho Rules and Ethics: Review of Two New Licensure 
Rules and Details on Prescription Privileges Law. Idaho Psychological Association. McCall, ID.  
 
Gage, J.  D.  (2/4/2017). Neuropsychological Assessment for Cognitive Deficits and Pain in 
Forensic Settings. Idaho Trial Lawyers Association, Boise, ID.  
 Gage, J.  D. (7/29/17). Recognizing Post- Concussion Risk Factors. Idaho Athletic Trainers’ 
Association, Boise, ID.   
 
Gage, J.  D. with Board of Psychologist Examiners (4/22/16). Update on Telepsychology and 
Service Extenders. Idaho Psychological Association, Sun Valley, ID.  
 Gage, J.  D. with Board of Psychologist Examiners (4/25/15). Interpreting Dual  Relationships: 
What would you do? Idaho Psychological Association, Sun Valley, ID. 
 Updated 01/29/2025 
  
 4 Gage, J. D. with Board of Psychologist Examiners (5/3/14). Continuing Education Rules for 
Psychologists Licensed in Idaho. Idaho Psychological Association, Boise, ID.  
 
Gage, J.  D. (3/11/14). How to Estimate Premorbid Abilities; Saint Alphonsus Rehabilitation 
Services (In -service present ation). Boise, ID. 
 Gage, J.  D. & Every, D. (5/3/13). What Veterans Wish Their Civilian Providers Knew. Idaho 
Psychological Association. Sun Valley, ID.  
 
Gage, J. D. (2/12/13). Dealing with the Agitated P atient; Saint Alphonsus Rehabilitation 
Services (In -service presentation). Boise, ID.  
 Gage, J. D. “Ask the Neuropsychologist” (11/1/12). Treasure Valley Brain Injury Support 
Group. Boise, ID. 
 
Gimpel, G. A., Collett, B., Gunderson, T., Gage, J., & Greenson, J. (2001, November). 
Predictors of treatment out come in parent training. Poster to be presented at the international conference, 
Association for Behavior Analysis, Venice, Italy.  
Collett, B. R., Ehrlick, A., Johnson, C., Veeder, M., Burgloff, H., Gunderson, T., Gage, J. D., 
Jones, T., Gimpel, G. A., & Odell, J. D. (in preparation). Differentiating ADHD subtypes in clinical 
practice. Poster accepted for presentation at the annual conference of the American Psychological 
Association (August, 2001). San Francisco, CA. 
 
Gage, J. D. & Tranchita, A. (2000, Ap ril). Effectiveness of psychotropic medications for alcohol 
dependence.  Poster session presented at Western Psychological Association, Portland, OR.  
 
Tranchita, A. & Gage, J. D. (2000, April). Effectiveness of brief interventions for alcohol 
dependence.  Poster session presented at Western Psychological Association, Portland, OR.  
 
Gage, J. D. (2000, March). Factors affecting parents’ acceptability of interventions for attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder. Paper presented at National Association of School Psychologists, New 
Orleans, LA.  
 
Gage, J. D. & Tranchita, A. (2000, March). Effectiveness of school -based alcohol/drug 
prevention programs: A comprehensive review. Paper presented at National Association of School 
Psychologists, New Orleans, LA.  
 
Gimpel, G. A., Hlavaty, S., Gunderson, T., Gage, J. D., Collett, B., Greenson, J., Rollins, L., & 
Hoff, K. (2000, March). The use of homework assignments in a parent training program. Poster session 
presented at National Association of School Psychologists, New Orleans, LA. 
 
Gimpel, G. A., Greenson, J. N., Rollins, L., Collette, B., Hoff, K., Gage, J. D., Gunderson, T., & 
Hlavaty. (1999, November). Characteristics of child therapy drop- outs at a university training  clinic.  
Poster session presented at Association fo r Advancement of Behavior Therapy, Toronto, Ontario. 
 
Roberts, R. N., Morris, C. & Gage, J. D. (1999, June). State, tribal, and parent collaboration in 
early intervention programs. Poster session presented at 12th Annual Convention of Native American 
Psych ologists and Psychology Graduate Students, Logan, UT.    Updated 01/29/2025 
  
 5 Gage, J. D., Wilson, L. J., & Yoder, S. M.  (1998, April). Acceptability of interventions for 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: A comparison  of parents.  
Poster session presented at Rocky Mountain Psychological Association- Western Psychological 
Association, Albuquerque, NM.    
 
Wilson, L. J., Gage, J. D., & Greenson, J. N.  (1997, April).  Sexual victimization, coping 
strategies, and psychopathology among male college students. Poster session presented at Western 
Psychological Association, Seattle, WA.   
 
Greenson, J. N., Gage, J. D., & Wilson, L. J.  (1997, April). Adult survivors of childhood sexual 
abuse: Acceptability of partners in treatment.   Poster session presented at Western Psychologi cal 
Association, Seattle, WA.   
 
Braun, C. C., Glusker, S. & Gage, J. D.  (1996, April).  Engineering information requirements 
for high stress work environments.  Poster session presented at American Psychological Association, 
Toronto, Ontario.  
 
ADDITIONAL RESEARCH EXPERIENCE  
 
08/98-05/00 Parents’ and Teachers’ Acceptability of Treatments for Attention -Deficit Hyperactivity 
Disorder: Effects of Presentation and Information Delivery  
Department of Psychology, Utah State University (Dissertation) --Examined the effects of providing parents and teachers with treatment rationales and a 
behavior therapy model to increase their acceptability of treatment options for ADHD. 
 
08/98-05/00 Opening Doors into Rural Communities   
 Monitoring and Measuring Community- Based  Systems of Care 
 Early Intervention Research Institute, Utah State University  
Completed approximately 1500 clinical hours conducting outcome assessment and 
research of home and community -based early interventions.   
 
08/96-05/98 Acceptability of Intervent ions for Attention -Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder: A 
Comparison of Parents  
Department of Psychology, University of Idaho (Thesis) --Evaluated differences in parents’ acceptability of treatments for ADHD.  Compared 
three treatments and differences between parents of children with and without ADHD.
  
TEACHING EXPERIENCE  
 08/96-05/99 Taught undergraduate courses in introductory psychology and research methods. Served 
as a teaching assistant for nine additional courses including perception and 
psychophysics, ps ychometrics, advanced research methods/statistics (graduate course), 
psychology of aging, abnormal psychology, psychology of emotion, and engineering psychology.  
 
SPECIALITY TRAINING  
 9/2018- Present  Trained in CogScreen and HIMS programs ; credentialed  for completing FAA 
neuropsychological and psychological evaluations. Updated 01/29/2025 
  
 6  
2008 Credentialed ImPACT Consultant  for concussion management.  
 2001-2008 Completed approximately 25 quarterly trainings regarding Critical Incident Stress 
Debriefings / Critical Event Deb riefings through the US Army and Air Force.  Also 
completed additional training on this topic at the Officer Basic Course.  
 
10/02-10/02 Graduated Aeromedical Psychology Training Course ; a three -week  course focuse d 
conducting evaluations/waivers for pilots in the military.   
 
07/02-09/02 Graduated Army Medical Department Officer Basic Course; a three -month  course 
focused on leadership, values, and physical/mental strength. 
 OTHER HONORS AND AWARDS  
 12/06 Awarded Civilian Contractor of the Quarter for the 366
th Medical Operations Squadron. 
 2001-2006 Awarded the Meritorious Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and Army Service 
Ribbon. 
 01/2025 Idaho Psychological Association Fellow Status 
 
 