OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 1 
 Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law 
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow 
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA 
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01-24-31665 
OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION 
FOR EXAMINATION OF DEFENDANT 
PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207 
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME 
TO COMPLETE REBUTTAL PENALTY 
PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES  
 
 
COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of record, and hereby 
opposes the State’s motion for an extension of time to disclose rebuttal expert witnesses and to STATE OF IDAHO, 
 
                                   Plaintiff, 
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER, 
 
                                   Defendant. Electronically Filed
4/29/2025 2:48 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkOBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 2 
 expand the scope of the prosecution’s evaluation beyond the testing conducted by Mr. Kohberger’s 
experts.  
I. The State’s Requested Extension Must Be Denied Because It Is Highly Prejudicial 
to Mr. Kohberger and It Is Not Supported by Good Cause.  
The State has had comprehensive psychological reports from Dr. Ryan and Dr. Orr since 
January 23, 2025. They were both disclosed at the guilt phase expert deadline. Only now, days 
before the State’s rebuttal deadline, does the State identify a new expert and request an additional 
21 days from some future, as-yet-determined date to produce a report. 
Jury selection in this case begins in fewer than 100 days. If the Court grants the State’s 
motion, the Defense likely will not receive the expert report until, at most, 70 days before trial. As 
detailed in previous defense motions and at oral argument, every new disclosure by the State 
initiates a new cycle of fact investigation and expert analysis by the defense. The Defense already 
has grave concerns about its ability to review and respond to existing discovery; it will simply be 
impossible for counsel to incorporate a new expert opinion just weeks before the trial for Mr. 
Kohberger’s life begins.  
At this late stage, any leniency afforded to the State with regard to discovery deadlines will 
cause a cascading effect of prejudice to Mr. Kohberger. Discussing late disclosure in the Brady 
context, the Second Circuit aptly articulated how last-minute discovery prejudices the defense: 
When such a disclosure is first made on the eve of trial, or when trial 
is under way, the opportunity to use it may be impaired. The defense 
may be unable to divert resources from other initiatives and 
obligations that are or may seem more pressing. And the defense may 
be unable to assimilate the information into its case . . . Moreover, new 
witnesses or developments tend to throw existing strategies and 
preparation into disarray. 
Leka v. Portuondo , 257 F.3d 89, 101 (2d Cir. 2001) (internal citation omitted).  OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 3 
 The prejudice to Mr. Kohberger is heightened because the prosecution’s anticipated expert 
report is not merely rebuttal. The State seeks to perform new testing of Mr. Kohberger outside the 
scope of what the defense’s experts conducted. Defense counsel cannot allow any potentially 
harmful or aggravating evidence to go unrebutted. Andrus v. Texas , 590 U.S. 806, 818-20 (2020) 
(defense counsel ineffective for failing to investigate and rebut prosecution’s aggravating 
evidence); Rompilla v. Beard , 545 U.S. 374, 385-90 (2005) (same). In fact, if this Court allows the 
State to proffer new diagnoses or mental condition theories during rebuttal, Mr. Kohberger will be 
entitled to surrebuttal on those issues. United States v. Barnette, 211 F.3d 803, 821–22 (4th Cir. 
2000) (trial court committed reversible error by prohibiting defendant from presenting surrebuttal 
at penalty phase of capital trial where evidence of alleged “psychopathy” was introduced for the 
first time during prosecution’s rebuttal).  The defense will thus need to review, analyze, and 
potentially retain its own additional expert(s) to decipher and assess the results of any new testing. 
This cannot be done in the short window before trial, particularly given the unprecedented volume 
of discovery that counsel is still attempting to wade through. Even the time it takes for Mr. 
Kohberger’s defense team to file this objection and litigate this issue is time they cannot spend 
reviewing the 68 terabytes of discovery, following up on their own investigative leads, and 
developing his mitigation presentation.  
 As the Supreme Court has repeatedly held—and as Mr. Kohberger has reiterated in his 
pleadings and at oral argument—“death is different.” Ford v. Wainwright , 477 U.S. 399, 411 
(1986). See also Woodson v. North Carolina , 428 U.S. 280, 305 (1976) ; Gardner v. Florida , 430 
U.S. 349, 357- 58 (1977); Lockett v. Ohio , 438 U.S. 586, 605 (1978); Caspari v. Bolden , 510 U.S. 
383, 393 (1994); Ring v. Arizona , 536 U.S. 584, 605-06 (2002). Mr. Kohberger, like all capital 
defendants, is entitled to heightened due process protections to ensure that this ultimate and OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 4 
 irreversible sanction is not imposed arbitrarily or unjustly. Caspari v. Bolden , 510 U.S. 383, 393 
(1994) (quoting Strickland v. Washington , 466 U.S. 668, 704-05 (1984) (Brennan, J., concurring 
in part and dissenting in part)) (“[T]ime and again the [Supreme] Court has condemned procedures 
in capital cases that might be completely acceptable in an ordinary case.”);  Eddings v. Oklahoma , 
455 U.S. 104, 118 (1981) (O’Connor, J., concurring) (“[T]his Court has gone to extraordinary 
measures to ensure that the prisoner sentenced to be executed is afforded process that will 
guarantee, as much as is humanly possible, that the sentence was not imposed out of whim, passion, 
prejudice, or mistake.”) . The State’s psychological evaluation of Mr. Kohberger is not a tangential 
issue unlikely to have any bearing on the outcome of this case. Under these circumstances, 
permitting the State to disclose new expert evidence on this issue so close to the start of trial 
violates Mr. Kohberger’s right to due process and creates the unacceptable risk of an unreliable 
and unjust death sentence.  
 Moreover, the State’s motion does not provide good cause for an extension. The Idaho 
Supreme Court recently addressed the requirement that a party show good cause for any request 
to amend a scheduling order: 
Fashioning scheduling orders early in litigation, especially when 
those orders are based on a stipulation of counsel as was done here, 
makes it necessary for counsel to establish good cause to change 
those orders with more than counsel’s assurances that good cause 
exists. Given burgeoning caseloads and crowded dockets, proof, in 
the form of [] facts . . .  is not only appropriate, but to be expected. 
 
Dodd v. Jones , No. 50748, 2025 WL 665547, at *21 (Idaho Mar. 3, 2025), reh’g denied (Apr. 15, 
2025). The State has not provided the necessary proof of good cause to warrant an extension of 
such a significant deadline so close to the trial date. The State does not provide any explanation as 
to why it did not confer with an expert well in advance of its known deadline or confer with  OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 5 
 defense counsel about the nature and scheduling of an examination until only 22 days ahead of the 
Court’s deadline for its own expert’s report. The State does not provide any detail about why the 
prosecution’s original expert could no longer perform the evaluation and why they only learned of 
this development 14 days before the Court’s deadline. Nor does the prosecution explain why, 
despite receiving defense reports on January 23, 2025—and thus being on notice of the precise 
mental condition issues that would be raised by the Defense—the State did not file its motion for 
an evaluation until the end of April, only one business day before the deadline to disclose its expert 
report.  
The State is deliberately vague about how early they retained their original mental health 
expert, but at the latest, the State was considering an evaluation as early as mid-March. In a filing 
dated March 17, 2025, the prosecution wrote, “the State may move to have Defendant examined 
by its own expert. See I.C. § 18-207(4)(c).”  State’s Response to Defendant’s Motion in Limine #4 
at 2. Having received the reports in January, retaining a mental health expert, and formally 
disclosing to counsel and this Court in mid-March that it may move to examine the defendant, it 
is disingenuous for the State to now frame their request for extension as necessary because defense 
counsel does not stipulate to irrelevant personality testing. The prosecution did not broach the topic 
of an evaluation with defense counsel until April 2, 2025. See State’s Exhibit S-2. Approximately 
three hours later, defense counsel requested information as to who the experts would be and what 
testing was proposed in order to determine whether the defense would consent or object.  Id. The 
State then provided information that it would pursue personality testing and did not yet know its 
position as to whether defense counsel could be present. Id. Less than four hours later, defense 
counsel responded that it would object to the irrelevant testing because it is outside the scope of 
rebuttal, and reiterated that counsel wished to be present. Id. Thus, counsel responded to the State OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 6 
 with extreme haste as to not delay their evaluation. That the State then waited for weeks to file a 
motion and litigate the contested issues does not constitute “good cause” for delay.   
Whether to extend deadlines is a matter within this Court’s discretion. I.C.R. 45(b)(1). It is 
time for this Court to exercise its discretion and shut off the firehose of new discovery from the 
State, particularly where, as here, the prosecution has failed to provide good cause for its requested 
extension. The State’s motion for an extension of time must be denied.  
II. The Personality Testing Proposed by the State’s Expert Falls Outside the Scope of 
Proper Rebuttal Evidence and Violates Mr. Kohberger’s Fifth Amendment 
Rights.1 
a. The State’s Proposed Personality Testing Is Not Proper Rebuttal Because It Is Not 
Reasonably Tailored to the Mental Condition Evidence Proffered by the Defense.  
“Rebuttal evidence is evidence which explains, repels, counteracts, or disproves evidence 
which has been introduced by or on behalf of the adverse party.” State v. Butcher , 137 Idaho 125, 
133 (Ct. App. 2002). “[T]here must be a nexus between the purported rebuttal evidence and the 
evidence that the purported rebuttal evidence seeks to rebut.” United States v. Stitt , 250 F.3d 878, 
897-98 (4th Cir. 2001). See also Tanberg v. Sholtis , 401 F.3d 1151, 1166-67 (10th Cir. 2005) 
(“Rebuttal evidence is not any evidence an aggrieved litigant may wish to admit in response to a 
topic introduced by his opponent; whether or not rebuttal evidence is admissible depends on 
‘whether the initial proof might affect the case and whether the rebuttal evidence fairly meets the 
initial proof.’”) (internal citations omitted). In short, rebuttal testimony must be “reasonably 
tailored to the evidence it seeks to refute.” Stitt, 250 F.3d at 897-98. 
 
1The State has not specified what testing its expert proposes to conduct. In addition to the arguments raised herein, Mr. Kohberger 
reserves the right to challenge the relevance, validity, and reliability of any testing by the State’s expert or of the conclusions drawn 
from such testing.   
 
 OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 7 
 This principle applies with equal force to proposed rebuttal testimony by experts. See 
Withrow v. Spears , 967 F. Supp. 2d 982, 1002 (D. Del. 2013) (“[E]xpert reports that simply address 
the same general subject matter as a previously-submitted report, but do not directly contradict or 
rebut the actual contents of that prior report, do not qualify as proper r ebuttal or reply reports.”);  
Int’l Bus. Machines Corp. v. Fasco Indus., Inc.,  No. C-93-20326 RPA, 1995 WL 115421, at *3 
(N.D. Cal. Mar. 15, 1995) (“[S]upplemental or ‘rebuttal’ experts cannot put forth their own 
theories; they must restrict their testimony to attacking the theories offered by the adversary’s 
experts.”).  
The proposed personality testing by Dr. Gage is not proper rebuttal evidence because it is 
not reasonably tailored to refute the evaluations conducted by the defense’s experts. The defense’s 
proffered evidence concerns Mr. Kohberger’s diagnoses of autism spectrum disorder (“ASD”), 
obsessive compulsive disorder (“OCD”), and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (“ADHD”), 
his history of disordered eating, and his history of substance abuse. The defense experts did not 
perform personality testing, diagnose Mr. Kohberger with a personality disorder, or provide any 
indication that such testing would be relevant to their opinions. In its April 18, 2025, Order 
Memorializing Oral Rulings on Motions in Limine, this Court noted “the lack of evidence 
Defendant has been diagnosed with personality disorder or similar mental illness.” Id. at 2-4. 
Simply put, there is nothing in the defense’s proffered expert testimony on the subject of 
personality disorders for the State to rebut. 
b. Permitting the State to Conduct Personality Testing that Falls Outside the Scope of the 
Testing Conducted by the Defense’s Mental Health Experts Would Violate Mr. Kohberger’s 
Fifth Amendment Rights.  OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 8 
 The State’s proposed testing also violates Mr. Kohberger’s Fifth Amendment right against 
self-incrimination. Any waiver effectuated by a defendant’s decision to raise his mental condition 
is limited to the specific issues raised by the defense. See Gibbs v. Frank, 387 F.3d 268, 274 (3d 
Cir. 2004) (Fifth Amendment waiver when defendant asserts mental health defense “is not 
limitless; it only allows the prosecution to use the interview to provide rebuttal to the psychiatric 
defense”); Hess v. Macaskill, 67 F.3d 307 (9th Cir. 1995) (examination of defendant by 
prosecution’s expert did not violate Fifth Amendment where examination “was limited” and “any 
opinions and evidence gained from the evaluations could be used only to rebut Hess’ battered 
woman’s syndrome defense”); United States v. Johnson, 383 F. Supp. 2d 1145, 1162 (N.D. Iowa 
2005) (questions exceeding scope of examination necessary for prosecution’s experts to rebut 
defendant’s mental  condition mitigation evidence would exceed scope of defendant’s  limited 
waiver of her Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination) ; Centeno v. Superior Court , 117 
Cal. App. 4th 30, 45 (2004) (requiring “threshold determination” that prosecution’s proposed 
testing is reasonably related to mental condition raised by the defense; “[o]therwise, there is a 
danger that defendants will be improperly subjected to mental examinations beyond the scope of 
the precise issue they have tendered and their resulting waiver of constitutional rights”).  
Even the cases cited by the State in its motion stand for this proposition. See Polvon v. 
State, 682 S. W. 3d 651, 660 (Tex. App. 2024) (“[A] trial court should limit a compelled psychiatric 
examination to rebuttal issues.”); Hernandez v. Davis , 750 F. App’x 378, 383 (5th Cir. 2018) 
(“[T]he scope of [the Fifth Amendment] waiver is ‘limited to the issue raised by the defense,’ and 
any testimony about the court-ordered psychiatric evaluation cannot go beyond this limited OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 9 
 rebuttal purpose.”).2 Furthermore, the very statute under which the State has moved for an 
examination explicitly limits any waiver to “evidence on the subject” raised by the defense. I.C. § 
18-207(4)(c) (“Raising an issue of mental condition in a criminal proceeding shall constitute a 
waiver of any privilege that might otherwise be interposed to bar the production of evidence on 
the subject . . .”) (emphasis added).  
The nature of personality testing guarantees that Mr. Kohberger’s Fifth Amendment rights 
will be violated by the States’ proposed examination. Personality testing, such as the Minnesota 
Multiphasic Personality Inventory 2 (“MMPI-2”) and the Personality Assessment Inventory 
(“PAI”), are not neuropsychological tests, but rather self-administered personality testing 
instruments, or “multi-scale inventories.” They do not test for intelligence, academic achievement, 
cognitive functioning, learning and memory, motor functioning, or other brain dysfunction and 
impairments. Instead, such tests are used to assess an individual’s personality traits, and contain a 
battery of invasive true/false questions, many of which seek very private information, and some of 
which could elicit potentially incriminating responses.  
By way of example, the MMPI consists of hundreds of true-false questions.3 The subject 
is not asked to perform a timed task to assess the subject’s cognitive skills and deficits; rather, the 
test is uniquely testimonial. The test subject provides ‘true or false’ responses to written questions 
 
2 The State cites Hernandez for the proposition that the prosecution’s evaluation may go beyond the scope of 
the defense’s evaluation. This is a mischaracterization of Hernandez , which was decided on its facts. The court did 
not hold that the State’s evaluation was permitted to exceed the defense’s; rather, the court found , as a factual matter, 
that the prosecution’s evaluation did not go beyond the scope of that which was conducted by the defense’s expert. 
Hernandez , 750 F. App’x at 384. 
 
3 The MMPI-2 consists of 567 questions, the MMPI-2-RF consists of 338 questions, and the most recent 
MMPI-3 consists of 335 questions.  
 OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 10 
 similar to the following: “Sometimes I get so angry and upset I don’t know what comes over me”;   
“Sometimes when I was young I stole things”; “ At times I have a strong urge to do something 
harmful or shocking”; “I have had peculiar and disturbing experiences that most other people have 
not had”; “I would like to do the work of a choir director”; “If I could get into the movies without 
paying and be sure I was not seen, I would probably do it ”; “I worry quite a bit over possible 
misfortunes.”4 Thus, the questions are clearly testimonial in nature, asking about a wide-range of 
things such as anger expression, aggressive tendencies, rule-breaking behavior as a child and adult, 
temper control, and so on. These squarely implicate the Fifth Amendment and go far beyond the 
scope of rebuttal. See Rhode Island v. Innis , 446 U.S. 291, 301 (1990) (holding that the Fifth 
Amendment is implicated whenever questioning is “reasonably likely to evoke an incriminating 
response”); Hoffman v. United States , 341 U.S. 479, 486-87 (1951) (explaining that the Fifth 
Amendment privilege does not “only extend[] to answers that would in themselves support a 
conviction” but to any situation in which “the implication of the question, in the setting in which 
it is asked, that a responsive answer . . . might be dangerous.”). In fact, the PAI asks questions 
(paraphrased here but conceptually accurately so) that are especially offensive to the 5th 
amendment, such as “I have done things that are not exactly legal” and “I am a very violent person 
at times.”  An agent of the State simply should not be allowed to propose such questions nor a 
court require a defendant on trial for their life to answer such questions when posed by the State 
or any of its agents. 
 
4 While the test materials themselves can only be purchased by mental health professionals, some older 
versions of the test have been made available online . See, e.g.,  
https://fitbir.nih.gov/dictionary/publicData/dataStructureAction!lightboxView.ajax?dataStructureName=MMPI2RF
&publicArea=true (explaining MMPI-2- RF questions and scales); see also MMPI-2 Test Booklet, available at 
https://www.scribd.com/document/688233606/MMPI-2-Test-Booklet ?.  
 
 OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 11 
 c.  Courts Routinely Exclude Personality Testing from Rebuttal Evaluations When Such 
Testing Was Not Conducted by the Defense’s Experts.  
 
Recognizing the limited scope of proper rebuttal testimony and the need to safeguard the 
defendant’s Fifth Amendment rights, courts have prohibited personality testing or excluded 
testimony pertaining to such testing in cases where the defendant, as here, raised the issue of his 
mental condition but did not proffer any evidence pertaining to personality disorders. See U.S.A. 
v. Jackson, No. 2:13-CR-00674-CAS, 2015 WL 4885997, at *5 (C.D. Cal. Aug. 13, 2015) 
(prohibiting prosecution’s expert from administering personality test as rebuttal where defense 
proffered evidence from mental health expert regarding traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic 
stress disorder). In United States v. Taylor , 320 F. Supp. 2d 790 (2004), the defendant gave notice 
of his intention to introduce expert testimony regarding his developmental history and mental 
condition relating to substance abuse during the penalty phase of his capital trial. The Government 
sought to conduct an array of personality tests in a rebuttal examination, including the MMPI, the 
PAI, the Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory, and the Interview Schedule for the Psychopathy 
Checklist - Revised. Id. at 794. The District Court concluded that the prosecution “must be limited 
to a parallel testing of substance abuse rather than allowing the Government to use [the 
defendant’s] limited notice as an open door for any type of mental testing” and barred the 
prosecution from introducing any materials beyond the scope of mental health testing related to 
substance abuse. 5 Id.  
 
5 The court prohibited the use of the “Psychopathy Checklist” altogether due to uncertainty about the test’s 
validity and reliability for capital proceedings. Id.  
 
 OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 12 
 A different federal court reached the same conclusion in United States v. Williams , 731 F. 
Supp. 2d 1012 (D. Haw. 2010). There, the defendant provided notice of his intention to rely on 
evidence of borderline intellectual functioning (“BIF”) and brain damage during the merits and 
penalty phases of his capital trial. Id. at 1016. The Government sought to present rebuttal testimony 
from its expert asserting that the defendant’s behavior was better explained by psychosis and 
antisocial personality disorder and discussing results of personality testing conducted by the 
prosecution’s expert. The District Court held that testimony by the Government’s expert “must be 
limited in scope to that which directly rebuts Defendant’s assertion of BIF and which is based upon 
expert examinations that parallel the exploration of the examinations conducted by defense 
experts.” Id. at 1020. Further, the court barred the prosecution’s expert from testifying about the 
personality testing, holding that “any diagnosis which requires a broader examination of 
Defendant, or which is used to assert a theory of prosecution not just to rebut the Defendant’s 
mental status defense, is inadmissible.” Id. at 1022.  
In sum, when a defendant raises specific mental conditions or diagnoses, the prosecution’s 
rebuttal is confined to refuting those particular issues raised by the defense. The State’s vague 
proffer—which does not even specify the tests Dr. Gage proposes to conduct—does not elucidate 
how personality testing will have any bearing on the opinions of the prosecution’s experts. 
Furthermore, the proposed testing falls outside the scope of Mr. Kohberger’s narrow Fifth 
Amendment waiver. The proposed personality testing must therefore be prohibited.   
III. The Sixth Amendment Requires that Counsel Be Permitted to Attend the 
Prosecution’s Evaluation of Mr. Kohberger.  
The State’s reliance on State v. Payne , 146 Idaho 548 (2008), to argue that Mr. Kohberger 
is not entitled to the presence of counsel during the prosecution’s evaluation overlooks Idaho OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 13 
 caselaw that more fully examines the issue. The language quoted by the State from Payne relied 
on dicta from Estrada v. State,  143 Idaho 558 (2006). See Payne , 146 Idaho at 577 (“However, a 
defendant has the right to the assistance of counsel, as opposed to the presence of counsel, during 
a compelled mental examination. Estrada v. State , 143 Idaho 558, 563, 149 P.3d 833, 838 
(2006).”). In Estrada, the Court explicitly declined to rule on whether the Sixth Amendment 
mandated the presence of counsel during a psychosexual examination: “Because Estrada does not 
argue his attorney should have been present during the evaluation, this ruling is limited to the 
finding that a defendant has a Sixth Amendment right to counsel regarding only the decision of 
whether to submit to a psychosexual exam.”  Estrada, 143 Idaho at 562–63. 
An Idaho appellate court that actually analyzed the issue set forth the test for determining 
whether counsel’s physical presence is warranted. In Hughes v. State , 148 Idaho 448, 452-57 
(Idaho Ct. App. 2010), the Idaho Court of Appeals held that the Sixth Amendment right to 
counsel’s advice regarding a psychosexual examination does not include the right for counsel to 
be physically present during the examination. In so holding, the Court of Appeals relied heavily 
on the D.C. Circuit’s reasoning in United States v. Byers , 740 F.2d 1104, 1117-18 (D.C. Cir. 1984). 
Hughes, 148 Idaho  at 453. The Byers Court articulated—and the Hughes court adopted—what is 
“unquestionably the governing test” for whether the Sixth Amendment requires the presence of 
counsel: “[T]he accused must find himself ‘confronted, just as at trial, by the procedural system, 
or by his expert adversary, or by both.’” Id. at 1117-18, citing United States v. Ash , 413 U.S. 300, 
310 (1973). See Hughes , 148 Idaho at 456. 
Here, the psychological evaluation sought by the State is not a neutral examination by a 
court-appointed expert. It is, as explicitly stated in the statute authorizing the procedure, an 
“adversarial process.” I.C. § 18-207(4). The examination will expose Mr. Kohberger to lengthy OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 14 
 and intensive questioning by an expert who is an agent of the prosecution and is thus undeniably 
his “expert adversary.” Counsel’s presence is therefore required at the evaluation. This is consistent 
with rulings from courts across the country, holding that court-ordered, pre-trial mental 
examinations are a critical stage of the proceedings at which the defendant is entitled to the 
presence of counsel. See, e.g., People v. Guevara , 174 N.E.3d 1240, 1240-41 (N.Y. 2021); State 
v. Hutchinson , 766 P.2d 447, 454 (1989); State v. Mains , 669 P.2d 1112, 1115-16 (1983); Houston 
v. State, 602 P.2d 784, 795 (Alaska 1979). It is also consistent with the American Bar Association 
Guidelines for the Appointment and Performance of Defense Counsel in Death Penalty Cases, 
which mandate that defense counsel should attend any interview conducted by the prosecution’s 
witnesses. 31 Hofstra L. Rev. 913, 1057-28 (Rev. ed. 2003).  
 Furthermore, this Court must consider Mr. Kohberger’s Sixth Amendment right to counsel 
within the context of the prosecution’s efforts to seek his death.  In Baumann v. United States , 692 
F.2d 565, 578 (9th Cir. 1982), the Ninth Circuit held that a presentence interview in a noncapital 
case is not a critical stage requiring the presence of counsel. Citing the United States Supreme 
Court’s ruling in Estelle v. Smith , 451 U.S. 454 (1981), the Baumann Court emphasized the 
fundamental distinctions between capital and noncapital proceedings: 
We understand the sixth amendment portion of Estelle, therefore, to 
be consistent with the general principle that the right to counsel 
attaches upon the commencement of adversary proceedings and 
applies to any critical stage of those proceedings where counsel’s 
absence, or lack of advice, might derogate from the accused’s right 
to a fair trial. Clearly, denying the defendant in Estelle the 
assistance of counsel with respect to his responses to questions 
that would be used in order to prove, beyond a reasonable 
doubt, the critical aggravating factor of dangerousness, 
impaired the fairness of the jury trial itself.  In those bifurcated 
proceedings, it is the jury which must decide whether the state has 
proved its case in the sentencing phase of the trial. If it decides that 
the state has, the judge must impose the death sentence. Thus, the OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 15 
 Court was justified in concluding that the defendant’s “interview 
proved to be a ‘critical stage’ of the aggregate proceedings against 
[him].” 451 U.S. at 470, 101 S.Ct. at 1877. 
 
Baumann , 692 F.2d at 577–78 (emphasis added). 
 The Ninth Circuit reiterated that “death is different” for Sixth Amendment purposes two 
decades later, in Hoffman v. Arave , 236 F.3d 523 (9th Cir. 2001). In Hoffman the Ninth Circuit 
held that a presentence interview in a capital case is a critical stage at which the defendant is 
entitled to the presence of counsel. Again, the Circuit Court relied on Estelle to distinguish its prior 
holding regarding noncapital proceedings in Baumann : 
We find that a presentence interview in a capital case is a “critical 
stage” for the purpose of the Sixth Amendment’s right to counsel. 
This conclusion is compelled by the principle from Estelle that 
defendants should not face presentencing stages in capital cases 
without the benefit of counsel, and the Baumann  distinction between 
capital and non-capital cases. The presentence interview is a 
mandatory part of Idaho’s capital sentencing scheme and forms the 
basis of the presentence report, considered by the court during 
sentencing. “Given the gravity of the decision to be made at the 
penalty phase, the State is not relieved of the obligation to observe 
fundamental constitutional guarantees.” Estelle, 451 U.S. at 463, 
101 S.Ct. 1866. The stakes for the defendant and for society are too 
high to allow defendants to face this important component of the 
sentencing process without the “guiding hand of counsel.” Id. at 
471, 101 S.Ct. 1866. 
Hoffman, 236 F.3d at 540.  
The reasoning in Hoffman compels the result in this case. Just like the presentence 
interview in Hoffman, the psychological evaluation under § 18-207(4) is mandatory and will be 
considered by the sentencer tasked with deciding whether Mr. Kohberger will live or die. 
Certainly, if the defendant in Hoffman retained a Sixth Amendment right to the presence of counsel 
after having been convicted of capital murder and in the context of a neutral court-appointed 
presentence examiner, Mr. Kohberger, who is presumed innocent and facing an expert retained by OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 16 
 the State, is entitled to at least the same protection in what is “literally a life or death matter,” 
Estelle, 451 U.S. at 471. 
IV. Conclusion  
Counsel respectfully requests that this Court deny the Motion for extension of time because 
the State has provided no good cause to extend the deadline for rebuttal of defendant’s mitigation. 
Allowing untimely discovery of this nature would substantially prejudice Mr. Kohberger’s right 
to a fair trial and sentencing determination pursuant to the Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth 
Amendments and his concomitant state constitutional rights.  
If this Court does permit an extension of time over Mr. Kohberger’s objection, he 
respectfully requests that this Court enter an order (1) prohibiting any personality testing, which is 
both outside the scope of rebuttal and uniquely testimonial in nature; (2) permitting defense 
counsel’s presence at the evaluation; (3) requiring the State to disclose a list of the exact tests its 
expert intends to administer and permitting defense counsel to object in writing to any improper 
testing after consultation with defense mental health experts.  
DATED this_29th  day of April, 2025.               
         
       _____________________                 
______________________________ 
       ANNE C. TAYLOR 
       ANNE TAYLOR LAW, PLLC 
OBJECTION TO STATE’S MOTION FOR EXAMINATION  
OF DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO IDAHO CODE § 18-207  
AND FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE  
REBUTTAL PENALTY PHASE EXPERT DISCLOSURES     Page - 17 
  
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the_29TH day of April, 2025 addressed to:  
 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov  
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email:  Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
 
       
 
