DEFENDANT’S 3rd SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY  Page - 1 Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender 
Kootenai County Public Defender PO Box 9000 Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 Phone: (208) 446-1700; Fax: (208) 446-1701 Bar Number: 5836 iCourt Email: pdfax@kcgov.us
 
 Assigned Attorney: Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 
Jay W. Logsdon, Chief Deputy Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759  
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND  JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR29 -22-0002805 
 
 DEFENDANT’S 3
rd SUPPLEMENTAL 
REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY   
   
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTI CE that the undersigned pursuant to Rule 16 of the Idaho Criminal 
Rules, the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the 
United States, and Article I, § 1, 2, 13 and 17 of the Constitution of the State of Idaho request s 
discovery and inspection of all materials discoverable by defendant per I.C.R. 16(b)(1) -(8) and 
the aforementioned Constitutional provisions including but not limited to the following information, evidence and materials: 
Standard Lab Discovery 
1. Biological testing case file : Please provide a complete copy of the case file,  including all 
records made by each laboratory in connection with biological  testing in this case, 
including biological screening, serological testing,  presumptive testing, micro scopy and 
DNA testing (including statistical calculations). Please provide photographic quality STATE OF IDAHO  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 V. 
 BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
                                    Defendant.  Electronically Filed
5/3/2023 4:18 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkDEFENDANT’S 3rd SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY  Page - 2 copies  of all photographs in the original case file (including photographs of 
evidence).  Electronic copies of photographs are acceptable 
 
2. Chain of custody and current disposition of evidence: Please provide copies of  all 
records that document the treatment and handling of biological evidence in this case, 
from the initial point of collection up to the current disposition. This information should include docume ntation that indicates where and  how the materials were stored 
(temperature and type of container), the amount  of evidence material that was consumed 
in testing, the amount of material that remains, and where and how the remaining evidence is stored. In the event  that the chain of custody spans several different agencies 
or laboratories, please address this request to each agency and/or laboratory that handled said items.  
 
3. Profiles uploaded to a DNA database : In the event that the case involves the upload of 
a DNA profile to either  a Local, State, or National database (LDIS, SDIS, or NDIS), 
please provide all  documentation maintained by the testing laboratory (including 
documentation maintained by Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) personnel within the lab oratory), including profiles that have been identified as unknown males (not the 
defendant): 
 
3.1 Documentation of all uploads, including: interpretation and/or deconvolutions of mixed profiles, handwritten notes, spreadsheets, match  estimator results, upload forms, and CODIS search forms. 
3.2 For each hit, please provide Match Detail Reports and long- form 
Candidate Match Reports for the hit(s) including partial hits and hits that are dispositioned to be nonmatching (even if the labora tory has 
dispositioned a profile as a hit).  
3.3 Any state manuals regarding the use of the SDIS and NDIS database systems.  
3.4 Any hits made to any profile uploaded, even if they hit on individuals not the defendant and deemed to not be candidate matches, including hits to any “unknown” males identified via testing. 
 
4. Data files : Please provide copies of all computer data files created in the course of 
performing the DNA testing and analyzing the data in this case (i.e., both raw  data and 
processed data).  These data files should include all sample files, project files, matrix files, 
size standard files, and analysis method files. In the event that a particular data file cannot be produced, please provide name of said file with explanation for nonproduction. 
 
5. Statistical calculations : Please provide a copy of all statistical calculations undertaken 
with regard to DNA testing in this case including standard statistical tests, database match probability calculations and statistical calculations that were un dertaken using software 
programs performing biostatistical calculations, such as Probabilistic Genotyping programs. Please provide information for all analyses undertaken, including those that were not used or were not reported. These materials should include: DEFENDANT’S 3rd SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY  Page - 3  
5.1 List of software programs used, including version number. 
5.2 Reference population allele frequencies used for the analysis.  
5.3 All handwritten or electronic notes pertaining to the analysis.  
5.4 Any electronic data files that were generated for  inputting genetic 
information into a software program. 
5.5 All documents and electronic data files generated by the software 
program. 
5.6 All input and operator- selected parameters used for the analysis.  
5.7 Any instructions given to the operator of the s oftware program with regard 
to input and operator- selected parameters to be used for the analysis.  
 
6. Communications : Please provide a copy of all communications between 
laboratory personnel and any other party with regard to biological testing in this ca se, 
including letters, memos, emails, texts and records of telephone conversations. These materials should include communications with regard to outsourcing of DNA testing, statistical calculations and DNA profiles uploaded to a database.  
  
7. Standard Operating Protocols and Interpretation Guidelines : Please provide a copy 
of the Standard Operating Protocols (SOP) and Interpretation Guidelines relied upon to perform and interpret the testing in this  case (including serological testing) as well as all 
subse quent versions of these documents. Interpretation guidelines should include those 
that address: (1) peak  detection threshold(s); (2) stochastic threshold(s); (3) interpretation 
of mixed  samples; (4) declaration of inclusions, exclusions, and inconclusive 
findings; (5) policies for reporting results and statistics and (6) software program(s) used to perform biostatistical calculations, such as Probabilistic Genotyping programs (if used in this case). Please include any applicable memos concerned with deviati ons from 
established procedures.  For any probabilistic genotyping program used, please provided Standard Operating Procedures including any user manuals from the provider and any memos regarding updates to the software. 
 
8. Validation Summaries : Please pr ovide a copy of Validation Summaries for internal 
validation studies undertaken to establish the Interpretation Guidelines relied upon in this case, including studies that address: peak detection threshold(s); stochastic threshold(s) and interpretation of mixed  samples.  Please include validation summaries for any 
probabilistic genotyping program used.  In the event that an Enhanced Detection Method was used in this case, please provide a copy of the Validation Summary for said method. In the event that a s oftware program was used to perform biostatistical calculations is this 
case, please provide a copy of the Validation Summary for said program.   
 
*Please note: this is a request for the summaries not the complete validation studies.  
 
9. Laboratory personnel : Please provide background information for each person involved 
in conducting or reviewing the DNA testing performed in this case, including: DEFENDANT’S 3rd SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY  Page - 4  
9.1 10.1 Current resume  
9.2 10.2  Performance evaluation and personnel file 
9.3 10.3 A summary of proficiency test results  
 
10. Unexpected results and corrective actions : For each laboratory that performed  DNA 
testing in this case, please provide copies of the laboratory’s logs of unexpected results 
and corrective actions. The logs should be provided for the time period beginning 6 months before the start of testing and ending 6 months after the completion of testing. Documentation should be provided for unexpected result events that arose due to mechanical, chemical, and/or analyst operations, in cluding: contamination, the presence 
of extraneous DNA, sample handling errors, or any other reason. The logs should be provided for all laboratory personnel, not just the analyst(s) who performed the testing in this case. Please note: this is a request fo r the logs themselves, not just for entries within 
the logs that pertain to this case.  
 
Genetic Genealogy Testing and Search  
1. All reports generated by any lab that conducted SNP testing on any sample in this case, including from samples where “unknown” males, not the defendant, were identified. 
 
2. Copies of all communications between laboratory personnel and any other person or 
organization, with regard to the instant case, including letters, memos, emails, internet posts, press releases, and records of other communications (including communications with regard to any DNA profile uploaded to any public or private DNA database). 
 
3. All documentation associated with any database search, including, but not limited to, CODIS, NDIS, GEDMatch, Family Tree DNA,  and/or felon databases, case sample databases, missing persons databases, and internal quality assurance databases. The documenta tion should include, but is not limited to, the input profile, the input search 
parameters, the search output, all reports, all correspondence, and any follow-up actions. 
 
4. All documents related to any genetic genealogy search, including, but not limited  to, the 
creation of a user profile(s), account(s) information, automated search results, uploading of data, all queries and  search results from any private or public databank(s), family tree information, and all other documents, reports, notes or other communications pertaining to genealogy DNA database searches.  
 
5. All documents related to any genetic genealogy investigation, including but not limited to additional collection and/or testing of DNA samples, notes of any interviews, documents obtained related to ancestry, and/or recommendations for further testing.    
6. All documents related to the comparison of any DNA samples collected during the genealogy investigation to crime scene evidence.  DEFENDANT’S 3rd SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY  Page - 5  
7. The name and address of all persons found to have suffi cient sharing centimorgams with 
the “subject” profile to be identified as a match in the report created in this case.   
 
DATED this ___ 3___ day of May, 2023. 
 
ANNE C. TAYLOR, PUBLIC DEFENDER  
KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER   
 
 
      BY:  _________________________________ 
       ANNE C. TAYLOR  
       PUBLIC DEFENDER  
       ASSIGNED ATTORNEY 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___3____ day of May, 2023 addressed to: 
  Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via iCourt: paservice@latahcountyid.gov
  
Elisa Massoth – via iCourt: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
        
       
 
 
