MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 1 
 Anne Taylor Law, PLLC 
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com 
  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208) 642-3797; Fax: (208)642-3799 
  
Bicka Barlow  
Pro Hac Vice  
2358 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Phone: (415) 553-4110 
  
Assigned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5836 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law, CA Bar Number: 178723 
Jay W. Logsdon, First District Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR01-24-31665 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE  
 
 
 
 COMES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger, by and through his attorneys of record, and hereby 
respectf ully submits the following Motion to Continue  due to the substantial amount of trial 
investigation and preparation still outstanding, as well as recent and forthcoming publicity that is 
highly prejudicial to the defense.  Any conviction and sentence resulting from a  capital  trial STATE OF IDAHO,  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER, 
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
5/20/2025 9:39 AM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkMOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 2  
 beginning in August 2025 will be unconstitutionally imposed and, therefore, vulnerable to reversal 
on direct or collateral review. In making this M otion, Mr. Kohberger relies on his right to be free 
from cruel and unusual punishment, his right to due process, his right to a fair trial, his right to 
counsel, his right to present a defense, his right to confront witnesses, his right to a fair and reliable 
sentencing determ ination, and other rights safeguarded by the Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth 
Amendm ents to the United States Constitution, Article I, Sections 6, 7, 8, and 13 of the Idaho State 
Constitution .  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
I. This Court Has an Obligation to Uphold Mr. Kohberger’s Constitutional Rights by 
Vacating the Trial Date because Defense Counsel Needs Additional Time to Review Discovery and Prepare for the Complex Merits and Sentencing Phases Unique to Death Penalty Cases . .................................................................................................................. 3 
II. Mr. Kohberger Has Myriad Constitutional Rights during These Proceedings, All of Which Are Dependent on Counsel Having the Time and Resources to Prepare for a Capital Trial in Accordance with Established Professional Norms.  ................................ 4 
A. In Capital Cases, the Rights to Effective Assistance of Counsel and a Complete Defense 
Are Amplified.  .............................................................................................................. 4 
B. Mr. Kohberger Is also Entitled to an Individualized Sentencing Determination, a 
Constitutional Right that Is Uniquely Reserved for Defendants Facing the Death Penalty.  .......................................................................................................................... 7 
C. The Right to Qualified Expert Assistance as Part of the Guarantees to Effective 
Assistance of Counsel and an Individualized Sentencing Proceeding.  ......................... 9 
III. Counsel’s Professional and Ethical Obligations in a Capital Case.  ............................... 10 
A. Counsel’s Duty to Provide Effective Assistance of Counsel in Accordance with the Prevailing Professional Norms. .................................................................................. 10 
B. The Minimum Requirements Counsel Must Meet in Investigating for the Merits Phase of a Capital Case.  .........................................................................................................11  
C. Counsel Must Conduct an Exhaustive, Unparalleled Life History Investigation, Analyze Hundreds of Documents and Interviews, and Compile All of this Information into a Cohesive Narrative for the Sentencing Phase.  .................................................. 12 
1. What a Constitutionally Adequate Investigation Entails  ..................................... 12 
2. A Full Investigation Is Likely to Lead to Discovery of Numerous Mitigating Factors that Would Not Be Readily Apparent from a Cursory Investigation.  ..... 17 
3. Mere Identification of Mitigating Information Is Not the Conclusion of the Investigation. ....................................................................................................... 20 MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 3  
 D. The Alleged Aggravating Circumstances of this Crime Heighten Counsel’s Obligation 
to Conduct a Full and Complete Investigation and Prepare a Presentation that can 
Withstand Adversarial Testing.  ................................................................................... 22 
E. Counsel Cannot Identify All Necessary Experts Without Completing the Comprehensive 
Life History Investigation.  .......................................................................................... 24 
I V. Counsel Requires Additional Time to Fulfill the Minimum Requirements Described Above.  ............................................................................................................................ 28 
A. Counsel Cannot Review All of the Relevant Discovery and Complete the Necessary Investigations Prior to Trial.  ....................................................................................... 28 
B. The Life History Investigation is Ongoing and Requires Additional Time and Expert Assistance.  .................................................................................................................. 31 
V. A Continuance is Necessary to Remedy the Prejudice of Highly Inflammatory Publicity Released Just Weeks Before the Current Trial Date, Including the Recent Dateline Special and a Forthcoming Book. ............................................................................................... 32 
VI. Reversal is More Likely Than Not in Any Case Resulting in a Death Sentence.  .......... 36 
VII.A Continuance is Reasonable and Necessary under the Circumstances.
........................................................................................................................................ 39 
 
ARGUMENT  
I. This Court Has an Obligation to Uphold Mr. Kohberger ’s Constitutional Rights by 
Vacating the Trial Date because Defense Counsel Needs  Additional Time to  Review 
Discovery  and Prepare for the Complex Merits  and Sentencing Phase s Unique to 
Death Penalty Cases.  
 This Court has an “obligation to ‘enforce the constitutional rights of all ‘persons,’ including 
prisoners.” Brown v. Plata, 563 U.S. 491, 511 (2011) ; see also Robb v. Connolly , 111 U.S. 624, 
637 (1884) (“Upon the State courts, equally with the courts of the Union, rests the obligation to 
guard, enforce, and protect every right granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States and the laws made in pursuance thereof. . . .”).   
As detailed in this Motion, moving forward with a capital trial in August will infringe upon 
Mr. Kohberger’s constitutional rights, as counsel requires more time to review discovery, complete investigations, and prepare for trial. When considering this request for a continuance, the Court must weigh the issues against the heightened need for reliability in death penalty cases. See  
Woodson v. North Carolina, 428 U.S. 280, 305 (1976). This elevated standard is essential because MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 4 
 execution is the most irreversible and profound penalty; indeed, “ death is different .” Ford v. 
Wainwright , 477 U.S. 399, 411 (1986) (emphasis added).  
When the State  seeks the death penalty , it imposes an extraordinary burden upon the Court, 
itself, and defense counsel to ensure the fairness, accuracy, and reliability of the trial and any 
subsequent sentencing proceeding. With a defendant’s life  stake, the trial court must be 
“particularly sensitive to insure that every safeguard is observed,” Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153, 187 (1976), and must take “extraordinary measures” to ensure that a death sentence is reliably imposed, rather than “imposed out of whim, passion, prejudice, or mistake ,” Eddings v. Oklahoma, 
455 U.S. 104, 118 (1982) (O’Connor, J., concurring).  
Justice O’Connor’s concurrence in Thompson v. Oklahoma, 487 U.S. 815 (1988),  
reinforces the idea that trial courts must apply heightened scrutiny to decisions potentially leading 
to a death sentence.  487 U.S. 815, 856 (1988) (“Among the most important and consistent themes 
in this Court’s death penalty jurisprudence is the need for special care and deliberation in decisions 
that may lead to the imposition of [the death penalty]”). The Idaho Supreme Court, too, has 
emphasized the special safeguards and stringent due process protections that must be afforded in 
capital cases. See, e.g ., State v. Creech , 105 Idaho 362, 383 (1983) (“ The 
‘qualitative  difference  between death and other penalties calls for a greater degree 
of reliability  when the death sentence is imposed.’”) (emphasis in original) (citing Lockett v. Ohio , 
438 U.S. 586, 604 (1978)).  
Because proceeding to a capital trial prematurely is a decision that may  lead to the 
erroneous imposition of the ultimate sanction, this Court must consider and assess this Motion  
under a heightened standard of due process.   
II. Mr. Kohberger  Has Myriad Constitutional Rights during These Proceedings, All of 
Which Are Dependent on Counsel Having the Time and Resources to Prepare for a 
Capital Trial in Accordance with Established Professional Norms.  A. In Capital Cases, the Rights to Effective Assistance of Counsel and a Complete 
Defense Are Amplified.   MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 5 
  
The Sixth Amendment entitles Mr. Kohberger to the effective assistance of counsel at both 
the merits and penalty phases of this capital case. See, e.g., Andrus v. Texas , 590 U.S. ___ (June 
15, 2020) (per curiam);  Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 686 (1984). Additionally,  and 
concomitantly, as part of this Sixth  Amendment guarantee, as well as his right to Due Process as 
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, Mr. Kohberger is entitled to a sufficient amount of time 
to allow counsel to adequately prepare for trial and sentencing. See Powell v. Alabama, 287 U.S. 
45, 59 (1932)  (“[A] defendant, charged with a serious crime, must not be stripped of his right to 
have sufficient time to advise with counsel and prepare his defense”); United States v. Ash, 413 
U.S. 300, 340- 41 (1973 ) (“Powell  made clear that, in order to preserve the accused’s right to a fair 
trial and to ‘effective  and substantial’ assistance of counsel at the trial, the Sixth Amendment 
guarantee necessarily encompasses a reasonable period of  time  before trial during which counsel 
might prepare the defense.”) . The Supreme Court has recognized that “depriv[ing] a person of 
counsel during the period prior to trial may be more damaging than denial of counsel during the 
trial itself.” Maine v. Moulton, 474 U.S. 159, 170 (1985).  
In a capital case, counsel must meet specific professional obligations to be constitutionally 
effective. The ABA Guidelines outline the professional expectations and obligations for counsel  
in death penalty cases. These Guidelines are not merely aspirational; they represent the current consensus on what is necessary for effective representation in capital cases. The Supreme Court has consistently referred to the ABA Guidelines to determine the prevailing professional norms for counsel’ s performance. For example, in Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U.S. 510, 524 (2003), the Court 
explained that the ABA Guidelines for capital defense serve as “ guides to determining what is 
reasonable” and represent “ well-defined norms.” Similarly, in Rompilla v. Beard, 545 U.S. 374, 
387 (2005), the Court emphasized that it is the lawyer ’s duty to conduct a thorough investigation 
of the case’ s circumstances and explore all avenues leading to facts relevant to the case’ s merits 
and the penalty if convicted, citing the ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 4 -4.1 (2
nd ed. 1982). MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 6 
 The Ninth  Circuit, which would review any death sentence arising out of Idaho state courts, 
has also repeatedly relied  on the ABA Guidelines and expressly recognized the Guidelines as a 
“proper measure of the adequacy of an attorney’s investigation.” Andrews v. Davis , 944 F.3d 1092, 
1109 (9th Cir. 2019) (“American Bar Association (ABA) standards and the like are evidence of 
those norms and guides to determining what is reasonable”) (internal quotations omitted). The 
Ninth  Circuit is not an anomaly; more than 700 capital case opinions cite the ABA Guidelines. See 
American Bar Association, Death Penalty Representation Project , List of Opinions Citing the ABA 
Guidelines for Capital Defense .1   
In addition to the effective assistance of counsel, Mr. Kohberger has the right to a 
“meaningful opportunity to present a complete defense.” Holmes v. South Carolina, 547 U.S. 319, 324 (2006); see also Crane v. Kentucky , 476 U.S. 683, 687 (1986) (noting the existence of a 
“fundamental constitutional right to a fair opportunity to present a defense”); California v. 
Trombetta, 467 U.S. 479, 485 (1984) (“Under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment, criminal prosecutions must comport with prevailing notions of fundamental fairness. 
We have long interpreted this standard of fairness to require that criminal defendants be afforded 
a meaningful opportunity to pre sent a complete defense.”). This right has a number of sources, 
including the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, as well as the Compulsory Process and Confrontation Clauses of the Sixth Amendment. Holmes , 547 U.S. at 324.   
This right takes on special significance in capital cases; th e right to present a meaningful 
defense must take precedent over any countervailing state evidentiary rules or other procedures that might be acceptable in the context of non- capital criminal cases. See, e.g., Holmes, 547 U.S. 
at 330 (finding that South Carolina state rule, which had been in place for more than 60 years, unconstitutionally infringed upon capital defendant’s right to present a complete defense ); Caspari 
 
1 Available at  
https://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/administrative/death_penalty_representation/allcit
es.pdf (last visited April 22, 2025).  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 7  
 v. Bolden, 510 U.S. 383, 393 (1994) (“[T]ime and again the [Supreme] Court has condemned 
procedures in capital cases that might be completely acceptable in an ordinary case.”).  
B. Mr. Kohberger  Is also Entitled to an Individualized Sentencing Determination, a 
Constitutional Right that Is Uniquely Reserved for Defendants Facing  the Death 
Penalty .  
 
Because the prosecution is seeking to execute him, Mr.  Kohberger  also has additional 
constitutional rights in this proceeding. The Eighth Amendment requires that a capital sentencing 
proceeding permit individualized consideration of the defendant and the circumstances of the 
offense. Woodson, 428 U.S. at 304 ( holding that consideration of the character of the defendant is 
“a constitutionally indispensable part of the process of inflicting the penalty of death”); Roberts v. Louisiana, 428 U.S. 325, 332- 36 (1976) ( holding that the state’s mandatory death sentencing 
statute  was unconstitutional because it did not permit the sentencer to make individualized 
determination s or assess degrees  of culpability); Parker v. Dugger , 498 U.S. 308, 321- 23 (1991) 
(holding that petitioner was deprived of his Due Process and Eighth Amendment rights to 
individualized sentencing where the appellate court failed to consider all mitigating evidence). As 
the Supreme Court noted in Enmund v. Florida, 458 U.S. 782 (1982), “ we insist on ‘individualized 
consideration as a constitutional requirement in imposing the death sentence,’ which means that we must focus on ‘relevant facets of the character and record of th e individual offender.’ ” Id. at 
798 (citations omitted).  
The U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly emphasized that,  in a capital case, a jury must be 
given the opportunity to consider  all evidence that may weigh against a death sentence for any 
particular offender. This evidence includes anything at all from the defendant’s life history and cannot be limited. See, e.g., Lockett , 438 U.S. at 604 -09 (explaining that a sentencer may not be 
precluded from considering, as a mitigating factor, any aspect of the defendant’s character or record and any of the circumstances o f the offense that the defendant proffers as a basis for a 
sentence less than death); Bell v. Ohio , 438 U.S. 637 (1978) ( reversing death sentence because MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 8  
 statute precluded consideration of facts and circumstances proffered as mitigating circumstances); 
Green v. Georgia, 442 U.S. 95 (1979) ( finding unconstitutional the e xclusion of evidence at 
sentencing phase based upon Georgia’s hearsay rule); Eddings v. Oklahoma , 455 U.S. 104 (1982) 
(finding that it was constitutional error for sentencing court  to conclu de that it could not consider 
the defendant’s turbulent family history as a mitigating factor in deciding punishment); Skipper v. 
South Carolina, 476 U.S. 1 (1986) ( holding that it was unconstitutional violation of Lockett  for 
trial court to exclude  evidence that defendant had  adjusted well to incarceration between arrest and 
trial); Penry v. Lynaugh , 492 U.S. 302 (1989) ( vacating death sentence because trial court’s 
instructions to the jury did not allow jury to consider as a mitigating factor evidence of the defendant’s mental retardation and childhood abuse); Penry v. Johnson, 532 U.S. 782 (2001) (finding that Texas ’ three- question sentencing format, in light of jury instructions and all 
circumstances of case, did not adequately allow the jury to consider mitigating evidence of mental retardation); Tennard v. Dretke , 542 U.S. 274, 287 (2004) (“Relevant mitigating evidence is 
evide nce which tends logically to prove or disprove some fact or circumstance  which a fact -finder 
could reasonably deem to have mitigating value. Thus, a State cannot bar the consideration of  . . . 
evidence if the sentencer could reasonably find that it warrants a sentence less than death.” ) 
(internal citations and quotations omitted).   
When a jury is denied relevant mitigating evidence, either because counsel independently 
fails to conduct a complete investigation or because the court denies defense counsel adequate time or resources to conduct such an investigation, the defendant’s rights under the Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution, as well as the corollary guarantees in the Idaho Constitution, are violated, and any resulting death sentence cannot stand. Thus, individualized 
sentencing requires the present ation of mitigation evidence that is properly investigated, 
documented, and presented with the help of appropriate experts. As detailed further below, this MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 9 
 process is a comprehensive, time -consuming, and expensive undertaking, but it is also what our 
Constitution demands when the government seeks to extinguish human life.  
C. The Right to Qualified Expert Assistance as Part of the Guarantees to Effective 
Assistance of Counsel and an Individualized Sentencing Proceeding.    
In line with the heightened protections afforded to capital defendants, and stemming from 
both the rights to “a meaningful opportunity to present a complete defense,” Holmes , 547 U.S. at  
324, and to due process, Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U.S. 68, 70 (1985) , capital defendants are entitled 
to necessary expert assistance. Indeed, expert assistance is needed in all homicide cases, given that 
“investigating a homicide is uniquely complex and often involves evidence of many different types. Analyzing and interpreting such evidence is impossible without consulting experts —
whether pathologists, serologists, microanalysts, DNA analysts, ballistics specialists, translators, or others.”  ABA Guidelines , 31
 HOFSTRA L. REV. at 955. However, in a case where the prosecution 
elects to seek the death penalty, the right to access competent expert assistance is particularly 
important , given that “the prosecution and the defense rely more extensively on experts in death 
penalty cases than in [other types of] criminal cases.” Subcom. On Federal Death Penalty Cases, Comm. On Defender Services, Judicial Conference of the United States, Federal Death Penalty Cases: Recommendations Concerning the Cost and Quality of Defense Representation (1998) , pp. 
21-22.
2 Because prosecutors rely extensively on experts in death penalty cases, capital defendants 
cannot “present their claims fairly within the adversary system” if they have not also obtained competent expert assistance. See Woodson, 428 U.S. at 77 (quoting Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U.S. 600, 
612 (1974)).   
Beyond the frequently complex merits -phase issues, conducting an adequate investigation 
into sentencing- phase issues in a capital case almost always requires the assistance of multiple 
experts. See McWilliams v. Dunn, 137 S.Ct. 1790, 1793-94 (2017) (explaining that, when  a capital  
 
2 Available at: https://www.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/original_spencer_report.pdf  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 10 
 defendant’s “mental condition” is “seriously in question” and is relevant to “the punishment he 
might suffer[,]” a state must provide a mental health professional capable of conducting an 
appropriate examination and assisting in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense); 
ABA Guidelines, 31 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 1004 (noting that “because mental health issues pervade 
capital cases, a psychologist or other mental health expert may well be a needed member of the 
defense team[, and] additional expert assistance specific to the case will almost always be 
necessary for an effective defense”).   
As discussed further below in Section III.E., defense counsel cannot know the full range 
of experts that may be necessary until after  the extensive social history investigation has been 
completed. Both the identification of a mental health professional’s necessary area of expertise, 
and the accuracy of the expert’s diagnosis, is dependent on having accurate and comprehensive 
social history information.  
III. Counsel’s Professional and Ethical Obligations in a Capital Case. 
 A. Counsel’s Duty to Provide Effective Assistance of Counsel in Accordance with the Prevailing Professional Norms.  
 
In order to effectuate Mr. Kohberger ’s constitutional rights as described above, counsel 
must at least meet the minimum professional obligations for counsel on a capital case as outlined 
in the ABA Guidelines. The ABA Guidelines require “high quality legal representation for all persons facing the possible imposition or execution of a death sentence by any jurisdiction.” 31 H
OFSTRA L. REV. at 919. Among many other things, the ABA Guidelines recognize that “[e]very 
task ordinarily performed in the representation of a criminal defendant is more difficult and time -consuming when the defendant is facing executio n . . . Due to the extraordinary and 
irrevocable nature of the penalty, at every stage of the proceedings counsel must make extraordinary efforts on behalf of the accused.” Id. at 923 (emphasis added);  see also  id. at 988 
(recognizing the “extraordinary responsibilities and commitment required of counsel in death penalty cases”).  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 11  
 B. The Minimum Requirements Counsel Must Meet in Investigating for the Merits 
Phase of a Capital Case.  
 
With respect to investigation for the merits phase, the ABA Guidelines are clear that 
counsel must thoroughly investigate and challenge every minute piece of the evidence the 
state purports to have. “To assume the accuracy of whatever information the client may initially 
offer or the prosecutor may choose or be compelled to disclose is to render ineffective assistance 
of counsel . . . the defense lawyer’s obligation includes not only finding, interviewing, and 
scrutinizing the backgrounds of potential prose cution witnesses, but also searching for any 
other potential witnesses who might challenge the prosecution’s version of events, and 
subjecting all forensic evidence to rigorous independent scrutiny .” Id. at 926.    
 In addition to a complete investigation of every piece of the State’s case, counsel is then 
responsible for identifying and considering all legal claims potentially available, even if those claims have consistently lost in that jurisdiction. See id.  at 1032 (“Counsel should object to 
anything that appears unfair or unjust even if it involves challenging well -accepted practices.”). 
This is necessary because counsel in a capital case has a duty to preserve “any and all conceivable errors for each stage  of ap pellate and post -conviction review .” Id. at 1030. Non- preservation of an 
issue at the trial level may result in waiver, and ultimately in a defendant’s execution, even if reversible error occurred. See id. at 1030 (describing a case in which, from a joint capital trial, one 
co-defendant was eventually executed because his counsel failed to object to women being 
excluded from the jury, while the other co -defendant’s case was reversed and he is now serving 
life in prison because his attorneys preserved the is sue).  
This obligation places  a significantly higher burden on defense counsel than in a non-
capital case. In an ordinary criminal case, counsel could strategically forgo some aspects of the exhaustive investigation outlined step- by-step in the ABA Guidelines and would not be required 
to preserve every possible legal error for potent ial review. Furthermore, there would be MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 12 
 significantly fewer legal issues to address because the unique issues related to capital sentencing 
would be irrelevant.  
C. Counsel Must Conduct an Exhaustive, Unparalleled Life History Investigation, 
Analyze Hundreds of Documents and Interviews, and Compile All of this Information into a Cohesive Narrative for the Sentencing Phase.   
1. What a Constitutionally Adequate Investigation Entails  
 
A constitutionally  adequate investigation for the sentencing phase of a capital case requires 
a comprehensive investigation into the client’s entire life history in order to present a complete 
picture of the client’s mitigating life circumstances to the jury. “Because the sentencer in a capital case must consider in mitigation anything in the life of the defendant which might militate against the appropriateness of the death penalty for the defendant, penalty phase preparation requires extensive and general ly unparalleled investigation into personal and family history.”  Id. at 1022 
(internal citations omitted).  
The life history investigation is so central to death penalty cases that there is a 
supplementary set of Guidelines specifically outlining counsel’s responsibility in this piece of case 
preparation. See Supplementary Guidelines for the Mitigation Function of Defense Teams in Death 
Penalty Cases, 36 H
OFSTRA L. REV 677 (2008) [hereinafter “Supplementary Guidelines”]. 
The defense “must conduct an ongoing, exhaustive and independent investigation of every 
aspect of the client’s character, history, record and any circumstances of the offense, or other factors, which may provide a basis for a sentence less than death” in o rder to meet their 
constitutional obligations. Supplementary Guidelines , 36 H
OFSTRA L. REV. at 689.  Dozens of 
cases confirm this as a fundamental obligation of defense counsel in a capital case:  
Without conducting a reasonable investigation, counsel ’s choice of 
strategy will be arbitrary, as the strength of each potential strategic 
choice is contingent on the outcome of the initial investigation. Hooper , 314 F.3d at 1170-71; Bouchillon v. Collins , 907 F.2d 589, 
597 (5th Cir.  1990). Wiggins  makes clear that to be reasonably 
diligent, counsel must “‘conduct a  thorough investigation of the 
defendant’ s background’” for “ all reasonably available  mitigating 
evidence.” Id. at 522, 524, 123 S.Ct. 2527 (quoting Williams , 529 MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 13  
 U.S. at 396, 120 S.Ct. 1495, and ABA Guideline 11.4. 1) (first 
emphasis added).  
 
Wilson v. Sirmons , 536 F.3d 1064, 1089 (10th Cir. 2008), opinion reinstated sub nom. Wilson v. 
Workman, 577 F.3d 1284 (10th Cir. 2009) . 
Compiling a comprehensive life history for a capital sentencing phase requires two primary 
responsibilities, which are dependent upon each other, as further explained below. These 
responsibilities are: (1) collecting and analyzing records from the client a nd the client’s family’s 
life history, and (2) interviewing individuals who have touched the client’s life or who may be able 
to shed light on circumstances shaping the client’s life.  
It is well- established that life history records that must be collected “include[], but [are] 
not limited to” all records that may be in existence and which bear on any of the following subjects:  
• medical history;  
• complete prenatal, pediatric and adult health information;  
• exposure to harmful substances in utero and in the environment;  
• substance abuse history;  
• mental health history;  
• history of maltreatment and neglect;  
• trauma history;  
• educational history;  
• employment and training history;  
• military experience;  
• multi- generational family history, genetic disorders and vulnerabilities, as well as 
multi- generational patterns of behavior;  
• prior adult and juvenile correctional experience;  
• religious, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic, racial, cultural and community 
influences;  
• socio -economic, historical, and political factors  
 
Supplementary Guidelines , 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 682. Contemporaneous records are intrinsically 
credible and may document events which the client and other family members were too young to 
remember, too impaired to understand and record in memory, too traumatized, ashamed, or biased MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 14  
 to articulate, or events which the client knows nothing about, but which may document significant 
events or conditions in the client’s life.3 See ABA Guidelines, 31 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 1025- 26. 
In addition to collecting and analyzing those life history records, the defense team must 
identify, locate, and interview life history witnesses in a culturally competent manner in order to 
produce confidential, relevant, and reliable information. Id. Lay witnesses that must be interviewed 
include people such as:  
(a) The client’s family, extending three generations back, and those familiar with the client,  
 
(b) The client’s friends, teachers, classmates, co -workers, employers, and those who served in 
the military with the client, as well as others who are familiar with the client’s early and 
current development and functioning, medical history, environmental history, mental health history, educational history, employment and training history, military experience and religious, racial, and cultural experiences and influences upon the client or the client’s family; 
 
(c) Social service and treatment providers to the client and the client’s family members, 
including doctors, nurses, other medical staff, social workers, and housing or welfare officials;  
 
(d) Witnesses familiar with the client’s prior juvenile and criminal justice and correctional 
experiences;  
 
(e) Former and current neighbors of the client and the client’s family, community members, 
and others familiar with the neighborhoods in which the client lived, including the type of housing, the economic status of the community, the availability of employment  and the 
prevalence of violence;  
 
(f) Witnesses who can testify about the applicable alternative to a death sentence and/or the conditions under which the alternative sentence would be served;  
 
(g) Witnesses who can testify about the adverse impact of the client’s execution on the client’s 
family and loved ones.  
 
 
3 Most individuals who are the subject of a forensic evaluation are not able to remember 
their life histories completely, will remember events inaccurately, and will omit critical facts such 
as occurrences of head trauma. Certain important areas of informat ion, such as prenatal history, 
whether their mother drank or took drugs during the pregnancy, early developmental issues, injuries, illness, exposure to environmental toxins, and genetic predispositions to illnesses, are not likely known by the defendant. Only through thorough gathering of records, repeated interviews with people who had contact with the client throughout his life, and the analysis of all this information can a complete life history be developed. MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 15  
 Supplementary Guidelines , 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 691-92. It is vital that the interviewer conduct 
these interviews in person, face -to-face, and one -on-one, and that multiple interviews be conducted 
to establish trust and rapport in order to elicit sensitive information. Id . at 689.  
As the mitigation investigation develops, “red flags” will become apparent; i.e ., indications 
that a particular mitigating circumstance or theme may be present in the defendant’s life history. 
When counsel discovers a red flag, it cannot be ignored, as to do so would be to “abandon the [] 
investigation at an unreasonable juncture.” Wiggins , 539 U.S. at  527- 28 (2003).   
The development of the mitigation investigation, including the identification of and 
subsequent follow -up on “red flags ”, is dependent on both the life history records and interviews 
of witnesses. These two parts function together in order to produce a reliable life history narrative. 
For example, records from a client’s visit to the emergency room might be evidence of phys ical 
maltreatment by a parent or care taker, and may establish relevant dates and identify potential 
witnesses. The authors of reports a nd documents are themselves potential mitigation witnesses 
unknown to the client and the family. Alternatively, a family member recalling that the client or his family received services from a community organization when the client was young may aid 
counse l in finding records that would have otherwise not been known to exist, and which will offer 
third -party and contemporaneously recorded insight into what life was like for the client at a very 
young age. In this way, the investigation necessarily expands a s new information is learned, 
because “[e]ach record obtained will refer to other records and reports which must be obtained, 
and individuals who must be located and interviewed. . .” Lee Norton, Capital Cases: Mitigation 
Investigations , The Champion (May 1992) at 45. This cyclical investigation is also important 
because it leads to confirmation from multiple sources —both objective records and corroborating 
witnesses who can testify —producing a persuasive mitigation case that can withsta nd adversarial 
testing. Thus, mitigation investigations develop in stages, as explained in this example:  
[R]ecords indicating that the client’s mother drank alcohol during 
her early teenage years would lead the mitigation specialist to MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 16  
 question the mother, her family, and friends regarding her history of 
alcohol use, particularly whether she drank during pregnancy. To test and corroborate the responses, the mitigation specialist would gather the mother’s school records, medical records, especially pre-natal and post -natal health care records, all mental health and 
substance abuse treatment records, the client’s birth records, pediatric records (which may reflect slow growth and development of the client during childhood), school records ( which may indicate 
social and academic problems as well as psychological evaluations), and social service or child protection agency records (which may contain references to the mother’s drinking). Additional interviews would follow, focusing on family mem bers, neighbors, coworkers, 
caregivers of the mother and the client who might have information about the mother’s use of alcohol during pregnancy and the effects this had on the client. All of this information might give rise to a theory that the client su ffers from Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, which, 
in turn, would lead to further evaluation by an appropriate mental health expert. All these steps are absolutely necessary for an accurate and reliable diagnosis by the expert evaluator.  
Richard Dudley, Jr. and Pamela Leonard, Getting It Right: Life History Investigation as the 
Foundation for a Reliable Mental Health Assessment , 36 H
OFSTRA L. REV. 963, 973 (2008)  
[hereinafter “Getting it Right”].  
Unsurprisingly, this process takes time, especially because many witnesses must be 
interviewed multiple times even after rapport has been established:  
It is insufficient to talk to witnesses only once because each new 
individual recalls different facts and anecdotes; if an aunt provides 
an account of a head injury which the mother forgot to mention, it is 
necessary to go back to the mother and ask about it. Similarly, an 
interview may reveal records that must be obtained which in turn 
raise new questions, questions which necessitate interviewing 
several witnesses again.  
Id.   
Adding to the complexity, it has long been recognized that a competent mitigation 
investigation must include the family history going back at least three generations, and must 
document genetic history, patterns, and effects of familial medical conditions.  See Supplementary 
Guidelines , 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 691; see also  ABA Guidelines, 31 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 1025 
n.216. Because it is well -established that many major psychotic illnesses have strong genetic 
components, the existence of mental illnesses or related conditions in the family tree is vital MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 17 
 information for mental health experts evaluating the client, and the absence of such can lead to 
incorrect diagnoses. See ABA Guidelines, 31 HOFSTRA L. REV. at 1025; s ee also  Daniel J. 
Wattendorf & Donald W. Hadley, Family History: The Three -Generation Pedigree , 72 A M. FAM. 
PHYSICIAN 441, 447 (2005); Rompilla , 545 U.S.  at 392-93 ( finding constitutional error after three 
mental health experts erroneously concluded there was nothing he lpful to the defendant’s case, but 
a background social history would have alerted them to organic brain damage, extreme mental 
disturbance, and fetal alcohol syndrome). The ABA Guidelines are clear that this exhaustive investigation is constitutionally requi red, despite the fact that it is a time -consuming and expensive 
undertaking: 
A multi- generational investigation extending as far as possible 
vertically and horizontally frequently discloses significant patterns 
of family dysfunction and may help establish or strengthen a diagnosis or underscore the hereditary nature of a particular  
impairment. The collection of corroborating information from multiple sources —a time -consuming task —is important wherever 
possible to ensure the reliability and thus the persuasiveness of the evidence.  
 
ABA Guidelines, 31 H
OFSTRA L. REV. at 1025 (emphasis added).   
2. A Full Investigation Is Likely to Lead to Discovery of Numerous Mitigating 
Factors that Would Not Be Readily Apparent from a Cursory Investigation.   
 
Records, interviews, and other psychosocial research collected during the mitigation 
investigation process may reveal the following types of  information, all of which has been 
considered mitigating in the modern era of capital punishment: 
a. Fetal and birth trauma, including prenatal malnutrition, prenatal exposure to alcohol, drugs and toxins, maternal medical conditions, such as diabetes, liver and thyroid problems and toxemia, and complications of delivery, such as anoxia; 
 
b. Problems in early physical, emotional, mental and social development; 
 
c. Physical illnesses and impairments, such as chronic infections, high fevers that compromise organic function, traumatic injuries, MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 18  
 infectious diseases, nutritional deficiencies and/or imbalances, 
inadequate medical attention;  
 
d. Evidence of early or adolescent signs of mental illness or deficiencies, including mental retardation, pervasive developmental disorders and major mental illnesses, such as major depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder; evidence of the onset and course of childhood, adolescent or adult mental illnesses; interventions prescribed and/or obtained; and subtle signs of disturbance, including self -medication; 
 
e. Educational history, including when and where the client attended school; how many times the client changed schools; patterns of tardiness and absences; indications of learning disorders, such as low performance, low intelligence and/or performance testing; special education referrals and/or programs; individualized educational plans; referrals for psychological and/or psychiatric evaluations;  
 
f. Patterns of social behavior, including acting out in anxiety and/or tendencies toward isolation; changes in mood and behavior; problems with hygiene and incontinence; self -destructive behaviors; 
impulse control problems; low self -esteem; poor verbal skills ; 
unusual fears and phobias;  
 
g. The history, nature and extent of psychological, physical, and sexual abuse, including molestation and rape, premature exposure to sexual 
behaviors, isolation, degradation, rejection, abandonment, shunning, terrorization, and exposure to criminal activitie s; failure 
to help the child develop age -appropriate skills and competencies; 
failure to provide appropriate evaluations and treatment; destruction of treasured objects or ideals; prevention and/or destruction of important nurturing relationships; emotiona l and financial 
exploitation; exposure to consistently high levels of stimuli and anxiety; failure to soothe the child and teach the child to self soothe ; 
 
h. A history and course of self -medicating behaviors and subsequent 
drug and alcohol dependence, including the presence of traumatic experiences, exposure to older individuals who introduced and/or encouraged the child to use drugs and alcohol; patterns of se lf-
medication to regulate undiagnosed mental illnesses, such as paranoia and hallucinations; information regarding all treatment facilities, diagnoses offered, interventions prescribed, the degree of support of family members and others; a history of overdoses and suicide attempts; 
 
i. The nature of relationships with parents, nuclear family and extended family, including whether or not a client knew both parents, whether she later learned someone that she thought was a biological parent was in fact not, or whether the client’s true heri tage MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 19  
 was learned in the course of the investigation; the degree of 
consistency and support provided by caring adults in the home; whether parents or caretakers were physically or mentally impaired and the effects of these conditions on the child’s development; traumatic losses through death, divorce, incarcerations or other disruptions involving important caretakers;  
 
j. Residential history, including housing projects, foster homes, juvenile settings, patterns of evictions, institutional settings and community violence;  
 
k. Presence or absence of social and community support systems, including social groups such as Boy/Girl Scouts, little league, 
summer camp and/or vacations, religious and/or spiritual activities, extended family relationships, neighborhood associations, and access to medical, psychological, legal and law enforcement assistance;  
 
l. Nature and extent of poverty, including substandard living conditions, presence and quantity of environmental toxins, lack of proper nutrition, medical and dental care, inadequate heat and air conditioning, overcrowding, inadequate clothing and other basic  
needs, and infestations of rodents and insects;  
 
m. The number and nature of traumatic events, including the death, illness or injury of loved ones or important caretakers, being a victim or witness of violence, loss of home and/or possessions, acute or 
prolonged illnesses and/or hospitalizations, experienc e of accidents 
or natural disasters;  
 
n. Employment history, including childhood jobs and/or quitting school to help support the family, patterns of job skills and/or lack of skills, job- related injuries and/or  illnesses, traumatic loss of 
employment, and exposure to toxins;  
 
o. Juvenile and adult criminal history, including the influence of co-defendants, experiences with law enforcement, juvenile detention centers, courts, parole and probation offices, prisons and work release programs, rapes and assaults during incarceration; adequacy of care while institutionalized, including violence, gang tensions, overcrowding, lack of appropriate educational, vocational and recreational activities, diagnoses and medications provided while incarcerated, and/or failure by institutions to provide adequate mental and physical care and/or medication;  
 
p. Military history, including the location and nature of combat experiences, illnesses and accidents, evaluations, interventions and medications prescribed, nature of job assignments, special commendations, promotions and training, Article 15s and other disciplinary actions, patterns of alcohol and drug abuse, any MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 20 
 indications of untreated mental illness including traumatic stress 
reactions;  
 
q. Patterns of all significant relationships and any indications of attachment disorders, continuity and quality of relationships with 
family, friends, spouses, co- workers, military cohort, effects of loss 
or perceived loss of these relationships on the client’s mood and judgment; and 
 
r. Physical and mental health, substance abuse, social, education and employment histories of parents, caretakers, siblings, and other significant individuals. 
 Declaration of Elizabeth Vartkessian, Ph.D., United States v. Chukwudi Ofomata, Case 2:17- cr-
00201 (filed 11/09/2018).
4   
3. Mere Identification of Mitigating Information I s Not the Conclusion of the 
Investigation.  
 
Though it requires many hundreds or thousands of hours to complete the interviews and 
records collection in a constitutionally adequate manner, the mere identification of mitigation 
themes , such as those listed above,  is not  the conclusion of the investigation. Counsel must then 
analyze each theme in accordance with available empirical and social science, usually with the 
help of experts, and must decipher  how each mitigating theme played a role in the client’s life.  
For example, childhood poverty is a common mitigating theme in capital cases. Simply 
knowing that a client’s family was very poor is insufficient. Social science has extensively documented how poverty can snowball into other major problems, such as increased likelihood of physical and psychological abuse; antisocial behaviors; long-lasting psychological effects such as depression, poor impulse control, and high levels of dependency; increased likelihood of diagnosable psychiatric conditions; increased likelihood of trauma, which can result in serious long- term consequences both physically and psychologically; parental abandonment or neglect; 
increased exposure to environmental toxins and pollutants; dangerous living conditions; poor 
 
4 Dr. Vartkessian is the founder and director of Advancing Real Change, Inc., a non- profit 
organization that conducts capital mitigation investigations nationally.  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 21 
 quality schools, and so on. See Craig Haney, Supplementary Guidelines For The Mitigation 
Function Of Defense Teams In Death Penalty Cases, Imagining Mitigation: Evolving Standards 
Of Decency,  36 H OFSTRA L. REV. 835, 864- 875 (2008); see also  Scharlette Holdman, The Nature 
and Role of Mitigation Evidence in Capital Cases , Report for the Center for Capital Assistance 
(2002) at 5 (explaining many negative outcomes of extreme poverty, including that it has medical consequences, such as brain damage, and psychiatric implications).  
 It is incumbent on the defense team, therefore, to investigate beyond the mere surface -
level identification of mitigation factors. The contextualization and integration of mitigating life history information is an essential part of the capital sentencing decision, because jurors ultimately are looking for an answer to the question “why?”.
5 For example,  
The long- term consequences of poverty can be empirically 
documented . . . That documentation can serve as the solid, factual, 
scientific basis for the penalty -phase contention that childhood 
poverty—over which virtually no capital defendant has had any 
control —helped to shape his life course, drastically limited his 
available choices, and contributed directly to the criminal 
behavior and lifestyle in which he engaged. And it also is usually possible to identify with some precision the various factors that help to explain why some people’s lives are more profoundly affected by poverty than others. 
 
See Haney, 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 865.  
In sum, compiling a life history is not merely a checklist of tasks. It is a complex and rich 
endeavor that focuses on a person’s identity, and goes to the heart of the human experience:  
Compiling a life history includes understanding the broader  
environment that affects the client and this requires gathering records  and asking questions regarding culture, class, race and 
ethnicity, national origin, gender identity, sexuality, spirituality, and other factors that affect the client’ s individual identity and 
group allegiances . This is  not a tangential inquiry. Rather, how a 
person perceives himself and his place in the world affects his motivation and understanding of his own conduct, status,  
interpersonal relationships, safety, honor, and obligations. 
 
5 Of course, a sentencing phase only occurs if the jury has already found the defendant 
guilty of capital murder beyond a reasonable doubt in the merits phase. Counsel does not suggest that conviction is a foregone conclusion of this trial.  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 22  
 Identity profoundly affects how medical and mental illnesses are 
described and experienced by an individual and his community . 
It is necessary to understand what the client, his family, and his community considers behavioral norms in order to accurately interpret data that is gathered through observation, records, and interviews . How others perceive an individual and his place in 
the world adds an additional layer of complexity to understanding the nature and magnitude of psychosocial stressors he encounters.  The failure o f mental health systems to 
accommodate cultural needs and responses  helps explain why many 
capital clients have medical and mental  conditions that were not 
identified prior to their arrest.  
 
Getting It Right, 36 Hofstra L. Rev. at 967. Without this information, properly investigated and 
contextualized, it is impossible that a jury will be able to conduct an “individualized sentencing” 
of the defendant and his circumstances that the Eighth Amendment requires.  
D. The Alleged Aggravating Circumstances of this Crime Heighten Counsel’s 
Obligation to Conduct a Full and Complete Investigation and Prepare a Presentation that can Withstand Adversarial Testing.   
It should be noted that an integrated, comprehensive life history is not a luxury to be 
afforded to only some capital defendants, nor is it offered as  an “excuse” that stands no chance in 
the face of an aggravated crime. Rather, it is a vehicle that confronts  and challenges  the stereotypes 
of the “natural born killer ,” offering instead “an examination of the structure of the lives of those 
who commit [capital violence].” Craig Haney, The Social Context of Capital Murder: Social 
Histories and the Logic of Mi tigation , 35 S
ANTA CLARA L. REV. 547, 559 (1995). The U.S. 
Supreme Court has recognized this as a fundamental  and mandatory part of the capital punishment 
system:  
A process that accords no significance to relevant facets of the character and record of the individual offender or the circumstances of the particular offense excludes from consideration in fixing the ultimate punishment of death the possibility of compas sionate or 
mitigating factors stemming from the diverse frailties of humankind. It treats all persons convicted of a designated offense not as uniquely individual human beings, but as members of a faceless, undifferentiated mass to be subjected to the blind infliction of the 
death penalty.  
 
Woodson, 42 U.S. at  303. MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 23  
 Moreover, there are many examples of capital cases in which the presentation of a 
comprehensive life history and mitigating circumstances overcame aggravated crimes, including 
cases  with multiple victims . Indeed, juries have rejected the death penalty in at least 400 cases 
involving multiple  victims , demonstrating that the outcome of this case, even in the event of 
conviction, is anything but a foregone conclusion. See Russell Stetler, Maria McLaughlin, & Dana 
Cook, Mitigation Works: Empirical Evidence of H ighly Aggravated Cases Where the Death 
Penalty Was Rejected at Sentencing , 51 H OFSTRA L. REV. 89, 149-206 (2021) (listing more than 
400 cases in which juries rejected the death penalty in highly aggravated cases with multiple 
victims).  
 For example,  Ricky Abeyta killed a state police officer, a sheriff’s deputy, his ex- girlfriend 
along with her 18- year-old daughter and adult sister, another teenager, and a 6- month- old baby in 
a small New Mexico town of 2,500 residents; a jury sentenced him to life af ter deliberating for 11 
days. Id. at 150; Lou Mattei , “Looking Back at the Chimayó Massacre ,” SUN News (Jan. 27, 
2011).6  Jason Burkett and a co -defendant killed three people, including a 16-  and 18 -year old, in 
two separate episodes; a Texas jury sentenced him to life. Id. at 155. Andre Cooper was a gang 
leader convicted of killing four people, including eliminating a witness against him; a Pennsylvania jury rejected the death penalty. Id.  at 159. The list goes on.  
A death sentence is not a guaranteed outcome upon conviction of an aggravated capital 
murder case. And in a case where the allegations  are sensational in nature and have been the subject 
of intense media and public scrutiny, see P a r t  V,  infra , a comprehensive and accurate life history  
presentation is even more crucial to the constitutional imperative of an individualized sentencing 
 
6 Available at https://www.riograndesun.com/news/looking- back -at-the-chimay -
massacre/article_87123eb5 -c507- 5273- 9a76 -6d99893d0ba4.html.  
 
 MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 24  
 determination , to ensure the aggravated nature of the crime and the public outcry does not 
overcome the jury’s ability to weigh both options .  
Thus, capital defense teams have a complex and time- consuming job in identifying and 
interviewing life history witnesses, collecting numerous life history records from the client and his 
family, and then analyzing and contextualizing all of the information into a cohesive narrative for 
the jury, should the case proceed to a sentencing phase. And as discussed in the following section, it is only after  the mitigation investigation nears completion that counsel can identify all of the  
behavioral, cultural, sci entific, and mental health experts that  may be necessary to develop the 
mitigation presentation and allow for individualized sentencing as required by the U.S. Constitution.  
E. Counsel Cannot Identify All Necessary  Experts Without Completing the 
Comprehensive Life History Investigation. 
 
In addition to frequently complex merits -phase issues that are likely to require expert 
assistance, adequate investigation into sentencing -phase issues almost always requires the 
assistance of multiple experts. In particular, t he defendant’s mental health and cognitive 
functioning throughout life —as well as that of his family and caretakers —is essential information 
during the sentencing phas e and also often pertains to merits phase issues. ABA Guidelines, 31 
H
OFSTRA L. REV. at 956 (emphasis added) (expla ining that neurological and psychiatric 
impairment, combined with a history of physical and sexual abuse, are common amongst persons 
on death r ow, and how this can impact several aspects of the case other than sentencing).  
Like other mitigating circumstances, merely identifying mental health diagnoses is 
insufficient to tell the client’s story. “[U]nderstanding how  mental dis orders, impairments, and 
trauma affect a client’s childhood, adolescent, and adult functioning are core responsibilities of 
the capital defense function.” Russell Stetler, Mental Health Evidence and the Capital Defense 
Function: Prevailing Norms , 82 UMKC L . REV. 407,  407  (2014)  (emphasis added).  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 25 
 Reliable mental health assessments depend on extensive life history information, including 
information about family and genetic histories:  
Because psychiatrically disordered or cognitively impaired 
individuals are by definition likely to be poor historians, a reliable 
evaluation requires historical data from sources independent of the 
client (for clinical reasons, although the point has addit ional 
significance in forensic applications). Additional components of a 
reliable evaluation include a thorough physical examination 
(including neurological examination) and appropriate diagnostic 
testing. The standard mental status examination cannot be r elied 
upon in isolation for reliable clinical assessments any more than an 
expert can be relied upon in isolation in the courtroom context. 
 
Id. at 417 (noting further that a complete retrospective social history has been recognized as  a vital 
tool for accurate diagnosis since at least the 1980s); see also  Getting It Right, 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. 
at 974-75 (“As a general rule, it is never appropriate to expect a mental health expert to deliver a 
comprehensive mental health assessment of the client until the life history investigation is 
complete.”).  
Moreover, in addition to basing evaluations on reliable and complete life history 
information, experts must be selected on the basis of specific red flags in the client’s history and 
each expert’s speciality —they cannot be generalized forensic practitioner s brought in to look for 
any variety of potential diagnoses. See  ABA Guidelines, 31 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 1008 (“ [C]ounsel 
should choose experts who are tailored specifically to the needs of the case, rather than relying on 
an ‘all -purpose’ expert who may have insufficient knowledge or experience to testify 
persuasively .”). 
Experts that may be necessary in a capital case come from a variety of specialities and may 
include medical doctors, psychologists, psychiatrists, neuropsychologists, neuropsychiatrists, 
endocrinologists, toxicologists, pharmacologists, and various Ph.Ds, such as Ph.Ds in childhood development or early childhood education. Within each of those professions there are a host of specialties that must be tailored to the case, such as childhood abandonment and neglect, complex trauma, intellectual disability, tra umatic brain injuries, fetal alcohol syndrome, in- utero exposure MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 26 
 to substances, effects of specific drugs or substances in combination with existing disorders or 
mental illness, and so on. See, e.g., Supplementary Guidelines, 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 690 
(describing types of expert witnesses that may be necessary); Getting it Right, 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. 
at 979 (explaining that multi-disciplinary expert teams are often necessary and listing examples).  
In light of the fact that experts with different specialities will be necessary for each case, 
decades of caselaw confirms that “[i]t is simply ineffective assistance for counsel to permit a 
mental health assessment of the client to occur before having made a reasoned decision about the 
purpose of the examination and having provided the examiner with the data necessary to reach a 
professionally competent conclusion respecting the question presented.” Stetler, 82 UMKC L . 
REV. at 420.  
Experts are often essential to telling the client’s story in a way that answers the all-
important “why” question, see Section III.D., supra, and connecting the client’s life circumstances 
to the commission of the crime:  
A deeper understanding of the subject is rendered through a 
psychodynamic formulation, which takes into account influences in a subject’s life that contributed to his mental state, considers how environmental and personality factors are relevant to analyzi ng the 
subject’s symptoms, and considers how all these influences interacted with the person’s genetic, temperamental, and biological makeup. For example, using attachment theory, a commonly accepted theory of human behavior, a mental health expert might describe the long -term consequences of being raised by a parent who 
was psychologically and emotionally unavailable to the defendant as a result of the parent’s severe depression or drug addiction. A mental health expert might also employ research on the im pact of 
various factors on human growth and development to explain how certain traumatic injuries to the defendant’s brain, or exposure to certain chemical toxins, or certain chronic medical conditions resulted in cognitive deficits or behavioral difficulties. In another case, a mental health expert might use research that has clearly demonstrated the effects of a particular drug of abuse on human behavior to explain the behavior of a defendant who was addicted to the drug, or had ingested large quantities of the drug, or both. Conversely, a mental health expert might explain how a defendant’s inability to comply with a prescribed medication regimen resulted in a recurrence of the hallucinations, delusions and/or other thought process difficulties that led to his criminal behavior. MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 27 
  
Getting It Right, 36 H OFSTRA L. REV. at 983.  
There are numerous examples of capital case reversals because counsel failed to 
complete the social history investigation , even when competent experts have been hired, 
because the evaluations resulted in inaccurate and/or incomplete information presented to 
the sentencer. See, e.g ., Caro v. Calderon, 165 F.3d 1223, 1226- 27 ( 9th Cir. 1999) ( holding 
counsel ineffective where they “consulted four experts, including a medical doctor, a psychologist, 
and a psychiatrist, [but] failed to consult a neurologist or toxicologist who could have explained 
neurological effects of defendant’s exposure to pesticides”); Jacobs v. Horn, 395 F.3d 92 (3d Cir. 
2005) ( overturning conviction and death sentence because counsel was ineffective for failing to 
provide the hired mental health expert with a social history, “necessary information to conduct a 
proper evaluation,” and the expert erroneously concluded that defendant suffered no major mental 
illness, when in fact defendant suffered from “mild mental retardation, organic brain damage, and 
schizoid personality disorder;” conviction reversed because this information would have also been 
relevant to a diminished capacity defense);  Jells v. Mitchell, 538 F.3d 478 (6th Cir. 2008) ( finding 
counsel ineffective for failing to investigate the defendant’s social history and to provide the mental 
health expert with “personal history records —records that would have been collected had they 
used a mitigation specialist—that were necessary for the ev aluation”); Haliym v. Mitchell, 492 F.3d 
680 (6th Cir. 2007) ( finding counsel ineffective in 1987 trial for failing to investigate defendant’s 
social history, and failing to provide expert psychiatrist with such information; expert erroneously 
concluded that defendant had a diagnosis of “adjustment disorder with depressed moods” and was 
malingering, when in fact he had a brain injury); Commonwealth v. Collins , 888 A.2d 564 (Pa. 
2005) ( finding counsel ineffective in several ways in sentencing phase of 1991 trial, including by 
failure to provide defense psychiatrist with relevant social history information; counsel should 
have found information indicating that client suffered a head injury, and the expert would have 
recommended neurological and neuropsychological testing).  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 28 
 Therefore,  the investigation into the individual’s life history must be completed  before 
counsel can know the full spectrum  of necessary experts for the penalty phase . This is essential 
because the accuracy of the evaluation relies on precise background information, and counsel must 
identify the appropriate type of expert to engage. See G etting it Right, 36 Hofstra L. Rev.  at 980-
87 (explaining the forensic mental health evaluation process). Forensic neuropsychologist George 
Woods emphasizes that the accuracy of a diagnosis is contingent on the social history , and 
cognitive deficits are likely to be overlooked if a comprehensive social history is not complete . 
This is  because “ cognitive deficits often present as a series of defective links in an action, 
particularly in new, novel or stressful circumstances, rather than discrete symptoms, like 
hallucinations or delusions .” See George Woods , Neurobehavioral Assessment In Forensic 
Practice, Int’l J. L. & Psych. at 2 (2012) ( explaining how a comprehensive social history connects  
a person’s deficits to their behavior in way s that testing and a diagnosis alone cannot). This 
information cannot be obtained solely through a face- to-face evaluation in a jail setting.  
The ABA Guidelines highlight the complexity of this process and acknowledge that 
“[c]reating a competent and reliable mental health evaluation consistent with prevailing standards 
of practice is a time -consuming and expensive process .” ABA Guidelines, 31 H ofstra L. Rev. at 
956 (emphasis added). 
IV. Counsel Requires Additional Time to Fulfill the Minimum Requirements Described 
Above.   A. Counsel Cannot Review All of the Relevant Discovery and Complete the Necessary Investigations Prior to Trial.   
 
As counsel explained in recent filings and in oral argument —which are hereby 
incorporated in full for brevity’s sake —it is impossible for the defense team to review the 
necessary and relevant discovery in a manner that allows the evidence to be integrated into the 
comprehensive defense case, to pursue all necessary investigations arising from review of the discovery, including into alternative perpetrators, and to address the myriad issues that continue to MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 29  
 arise from the State’s failure to fully abide by this Court’s discovery and expert disclosure 
deadlines. Counsel requested that this Court alleviate these problems by precluding the death 
penalty as a possibility, freeing up counsel’s time to focus only on the merits phase preparation 
and removing the heightened standard of reliability that governs death penalty proceedings. 
Because the Court denied that motion,7 counsel is obligated to seek a continuance to continue 
reviewing discovery, complete investigations relating to the merits phase —including into 
alternative perpetrators —and complete investigations into “red flags” that have arisen in the life 
history investigation.  
Courts have recognized that the prosecution has an advantage in investigation and 
discovery issues because of the resources at their disposal, and this is particularly true here, where 
the prosecution has had the assistance of the federal government. As the Sixth Circuit has explained,  
The Supreme Court's rejection of the idea that the “prisoner still has 
the burden to discover the evidence” is based in part on the fact that the prosecution has the advantage of a large staff of 
investigators, prosecutors and grand jurors, as well as new technology such as wiretaps of cell phones. That is one of the 
reasons that these investigators must assist the defendant who 
normally lacks this assistance and may wrongfully lose his liberty for years if the information they uncover remains undisclosed. The superior prosecutorial investigatory apparatus  must turn over 
exculpatory information. The  Brady  rule imposes an independent 
duty to act on the government, like the duty to notify the defendant of the charges against him. 
 United States v. Tavera, 719 F.3d 705, 712 (6th Cir. 2013) . The prosecution has not provided 
defense counsel with a list of potentially exculpatory or impeaching evidence within the vast 
tranches of discovery in this case , and the Court declined to order them to do so. During oral 
argument on that motion, the Court identified a practical problem with relying on prosecutors to identify and list all exculpatory and impeaching information: prosecutors are advocates of their 
 
7 See Order on Defendant’s Motion to Strike Death Penalty and Adopt Other Necessary 
Procedures (April 29, 2025) . MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 30  
 side, and see the case through the lens of trying to secure a conviction. Thus, what may appear 
exculpatory to a defense attorney—or lead to the discovery of exculpatory evidence through 
additional investigation —may appear only tangentially relevant to a prosecutor. Given the 
heightened standards of due process afforded to a capitally accused defendant, it is imperative that 
counsel has time to review the relevant discovery and conduct any necessary follow -up 
investigations.  
 Cutting off this review before counsel can complete it would significantly prejudice Mr. 
Kohberger. The State’s case is circumstantial. Mr. Kohberger was not identified as a person of interest until weeks after the crime, and after he was identified, law enforcement ceased investigating all other possibilities. While counsel can explain this in trial,  every experienced trial 
lawyer knows  that trials are essentially “story battles”—high- stakes duels where the prosecution 
and defense each tell competing narr atives about the same set of events . Ultimately, the jury 
decides which story feels more true and more coherent. Even though the burden of proof rests with the prosecution, and the defense bears no burden at all, humans are driven by narratives; that reality 
forces the defense to counteract the State’s narrative with another compelling story. See, e.g., David 
Schwart z and Chelsey  Metcalf , Disfavored Treatment of Third- Party Guilt Evidence , 2016 Wis. L. 
Rev 337, 341- 42 (summarizing other scholars). As schola rs explain , “[w]here the central issue is 
the identify of the perpetrator, even a reasonable doubt case implies a story that someone else did it. But it is a story with a huge hole, and one likely to be ineffective. The jury might speculate that, if this defendant did not do it, there should be at least some evidence suggesting that someone else did.” Id. at 342. And it is especially incumbent on counsel to become aware of all existing evidence,  
because alternate perpetrator evidence may be deemed inadmissible under Idaho law if it “ merely 
tends to mislead the jury that another person committed the crime .” State v. Meister , 148 Idaho 
236, 241 (2009).  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 31  
  Thus, defense counsel’s review of the discovery is not merely checking a box—it goes to 
the very heart of the ability to prepare and present a  defense. Reviewing a nd integrating all of the 
evidence in order to tell the jury a coherent counter narrative is essential to defending Mr. 
Kohberger’s life. The State and its “superior investigat ory apparatus,” Tavera, supra, has spent 
years honing in on one specific story—that of Mr. Kohberger’s guilt —and ignoring all other 
possibilities. Defense counsel has a bigger job in not only reviewing their case for guilt, but 
figuring out what the  State  missed, and exploring other alternative possibilities. The inability to 
review the discovery and incorporate all of the information into a cohesive defense prior to trial would nearly guarantee that counsel cannot mount an effective defense on Mr. Kohberger’s behalf. Because hi s life is on the line and due process must be given its highest regard , this Court should 
grant counsel the time necessary to ensure a fair trial.  
B. The Life History Investigation is Ongoing and Requires Additional Time and 
Expert Assistance.  
 
As more fully discussed in the ex parte supplement to this Motion,
8 the life history 
investigation remains ongoing. Counsel is reviewing and digesting significant new  records  that 
have been received in the past couple of months ; addressing ongoing barriers to receiving 
important life history records ; and continuing to build rapport with several key life history 
witnesses . As explained in the accompanying ex parte filing, the investigation to date has revealed 
“red flags” for a number of mitigating themes and issues, and counsel must fully investigate these 
avenues before making strategic decisions related to sentencing.  
As discussed in Section III.E., only after  a more thorough life history investigation will 
counsel know the  range of  experts that will be necessary to contextualize Mr. Kohberger’s life 
story.  
 
 
8 Mr. Kohberger is entitled to maintain the confidentiality of the defense team’s ongoing 
investigation.  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 32  
 V. A Continuance is Also Necessary to I nvestigate and R emedy the P rejudice of H ighly 
Inflammatory Publicity Released just Weeks Before the Current Trial Date, Including 
the R ecent Dateline NBC S pecial and a F orthcoming B ook.  
 
This case has garnered substantial public interest, and the Court previously issued a non-
dissemination order restricting the release of certain information to the public in order to preserve 
the integrity of the proceedings and safeguard Mr. Kohberger’s r ight to a fair trial.    
On May 9, 2025, just weeks before this capital trial is set to begin, Dateline NBC aired a 
two-hour episode about this case titled “The Terrible Night on King Road.”  The program includes 
details and materials, including video footage , cell  phone records , and photographs of documents,  
that are not publicly available through official channels. The show repeatedly emphasizes the non -
public nature of this information, stating it was obtained from unnamed sources who are close to 
the investigation, and that the materials were obtained exclusively by Dateline. Much of the 
“investigative” material presented by Dateline  was taken out of context and will not be admissible 
at trial because it lacks reliability.   
The leaked materials appear carefully curated to promote a narrative of guilt. As this Court 
acknowledged in its May 15, 2025, Document and Records Hold Order, the source of the leak is most likely someone currently or formerly associated with law enforcement or the prosecution 
team . If that is the case,  it raises urgent and serious questions about the  objectivity, judgment, and 
credibility of the individuals tasked with investigating and presenting the State’s evidence —
particularly those who may be called as witnesses. The identity of those involved, their motives, and any efforts to conceal their conduct go directly to the heart of witness credibility and the integrity of the State’s case.    
The apparent leak is not only an egregious violation of the Court’s non- dissemination order; 
it enabled Dateline to gild rampant speculation with a veneer  of credibility. When purportedly 
“exclusive” information surfaces through a media broadcast shortly before trial —particularly 
information attributed to unnamed sources with access to the investigation —it carries a heightened MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 33  
 aura of credibility and secrecy that can deeply influence public perception. Unlike official 
disclosures, which are typically accompanied by context and procedural safeguards, leaks framed 
as exclusives are perceived as uncensored truths that the public wa s not meant to see. This “insider” 
framing enhances the material’s persuasive power, suggesting that it is both authentic and revealing 
of the case’s hidden realities.   
The episode includes things such as:   
• Repeated speculative assertions regarding the assailant ’s motives, including unfounded 
allegations of sexual motivation. 
• Dramatic reenactments and animations depicting the alleged crime, created by the show’s 
producers without basis in the evidentiary record.  
• Emotional interviews with individuals connected to the alleged victims, accompanied by evocative music, photos, and videos designed to elicit strong emotional responses. The broadcast repeatedly bolstered its speculative claims through the use of so -called 
expert commentary, including individuals identified as law enforcement professionals and academics. These commentators were permitted to make sweeping assertions about t he 
defendant’s alleged motives, psychological state, and personal history—none of which are grounded in evidence before the Court —while the program repeatedly emphasized their 
“training,” “research,” and “years of experience” to lend undue credibility to t heir conjecture. This 
type of testimonial mimicry improperly mirrors expert witness testimony in a trial setting without the safeguard of cross -examination or evidentiary standards, effectively presenting the public with 
a one -sided, unvetted narrative tha t shapes juror perception before any admissible evidence has 
been presented.    
While the program occasionally inserts disclaimers such as “we don’t know what 
happened,” these brief caveats do little to mitigate the cumulative impact of an extended narrative constructed through selective imagery, emotionally charged reenactments, and detailed speculative MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 34  
 descriptions of the crime. When viewers are presented with a cohesive, visually reinforced 
sequence of events —especially when paired with commentary from individuals styled as 
experts —the overall presentation fosters a sense of authenticity and truthfulnes s that is difficult 
for viewers to disregard. An occasional, passing verbal disclaimer functions more as a legal 
formality than a meaningful check on prejudicial perception, and most viewers will leave with the 
impression that they have seen a reliable reconstruction of events.   
The Dateline special, which aired just weeks before the trial date, will not even be the last 
pretrial media “bombshell.” Best -selling crime author James Patterson has written a book about 
the murders titled, “The Idaho Four: An American Tragedy,” scheduled for release on July 14, 2025—just sixteen days  before jury selection is slated to begin. A
MAZON , 
https://www.amazon.com/Idaho- Four-American -Tragedy/dp/0316572853 (last visited March 16, 
2025). The blurb for the book describes Mr. Kohberger as a “brilliant grad student, loner, apparent 
incel,” and explicitly tells the reader: “Now you are the jury. The evidence is in.” Id.  The publisher 
boasts of “unmatched access” to the investigation, including interviews with “local law enforcement.”
 Id. This suggest s that the apparent Dateline leak was not the only violation of this 
Court’s non- dissemination order.  
The Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments guarantee the right to a fair trial by an impartial 
jury. A continuance is necessary to fully investigate the leaks and to mitigate the prejudicial effects 
of such inflammatory pretrial publicity occurring so close to the current trial date.  
In Sheppard v. Maxwell , 384 U.S. 333 (1966), the Supreme Court held that a defendant was 
denied a fair trial due to “massive, pervasive and prejudicial publicity” that the trial court failed to mitigate. The Court emphasized the trial judge’s responsibility to ensure that the defendant receives a fair trial, free from the influence of prejudicial media coverage. The Court explicitly noted that a continuance may be required to protect the defendant’s rights. Id.  at 363 (“But where there is a 
reasonable likel ihood that prejudicial news prior to trial will prevent a fair trial, the judge should MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 35  
 continue the case until the threat abates or transfer it to another county not so permeated with 
publicity. ”).  
The Supreme Court has likewise recognized that the passage of time can significantly 
reduce the taint of media exposure, holding in Patton v. Yount  that even in a case involving 
extensive coverage of a confession, the delay between media saturation and trial reduced its 
prejudicial impact. 467 U.S. 1025, 1033–35 (1984). See also Beck v. Washington, 369 U.S. 541, 556 (1962) (pretrial publicity did not impair juror impartiality where, by the time of trial, “[t]he news value of the original ‘disclosures’ was diminished, and the [newspaper] items were often relegated to the inner pages”). The Court has recognized that while “pretrial publicity —even 
pervasive, adverse publicity—does not inevitably lead to an unfair trial  . . . [ t]he trial judge has a 
major responsibility  . . . [T]he measures a judge takes or fails to take to mitigate the effects of 
pretrial publicity []  may well determine whether the defendant receives a trial consistent with the 
requirements of due process.”  Nebraska Press Ass’n v. Stuart , 427 U.S. 539, 554- 55 (1976). The 
timing of the trial is a key factor in ensuring juror impartiality, as emotional intensity and memory 
of prejudicial material tend to fade over time.  
Social science research supports this position. A comprehensive meta -analysis found that 
pretrial publicity significantly increases the likelihood of conviction, but that the effect is diminished when there is a temporal delay between media exposure and tr ial. Lori A. Hoetger et. 
al., The Impact of Pretrial Publicity on Mock Juror and Jury Verdicts: A Meta- Analysis , 46 Law 
& Hum. Behav. 121, 133 (2022).  
In sum, the two- hour Dateline episode is uniquely prejudicial in both tone and content: it 
constructs a speculative narrative around motive and guilt, features emotionally manipulative production elements, and amplifies unsupported theories through self -styled “expert” commentary 
— all timed to air just weeks before trial, when juror impressions are most vulnerable and voir dire 
least equipped to neutralize such deep -seated bias. The forthcoming book by James Patterson, MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 36  
 which will arrive in the hands of potential jurors just two weeks before voir dire begins, promises 
to set off a new round of inflammatory, negative coverage and to deepen the pervasive bias against 
Mr. Kohberge r on the eve of trial . The Court has already acknowledged  that the Dateline special 
exposes a likely violation of the non- dissemination order, and Mr. Patterson’s purported 
“unmatched access” to sources including “local law enforcement” suggests that multiple  
unauthorized disclosures have occurred.  Depending on the results of th e investigation  into the 
leaks, a continuance may be inadequate. Once the source(s) of the leaks are identified and the full 
extent of misconduct revealed, the violations could warrant remedies more serious than delay.  At 
the very least, howev er, a continuance is essential to allow the extremely prejudicial impact to 
partially subside, and to give the Court and the defense time to fully investigate and address the scope of the violations. Only then can the conditions necessary for selecting an impartial jury and ensuring a fair trial under the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments be meaningfully restored.  
VI. Reversal is More Likely Than Not in Any Case Resulting in a Death Sentence.  
 
Statistically, almost two -thirds of death penalty cases are eventually overturned due to 
errors, often many years or even decades after the initial conviction.
9 A frequent cause is reversal 
on ineffectiveness grounds due to the lack of an exhaustive investigation and complete presentation to the sentencer.
10  Hundreds of cases could serve as examples, but for brevity, the following are  
 
9 In the only study of its kind, researchers conducted a comprehensive 23- year study, 
including 5,500 judicial decisions, reviewing outcomes of death sentences that had been fully 
reviewed through the appellate and post -conviction process and thus were fina l. Reversible error 
was found in 68 percent of the cases. See Columbia University News, Landmark Study Finds 
Capital Punishment System Fraught with Error: Serious, Reversible Error Found in Nearly 7 out of 10 Capital Cases in 23 Year Period (June 12, 2000), available at 
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/pr/00/06/lawStudy.html#footnote1.   
10  Federal habeas proceedings, which occur only after a conviction has been upheld in state 
appellate and post -conviction proceedings, account for at least 40 percent of reversals in death 
penalty cases. See, e.g., Andrew Gelman, et al., A Broken System: The Persistent Patterns of 
Reversals of Death Sentences in the United States , J. of Empirical Legal Studies 209, 2013 (2005) 
(reviewing all state death sentences over more than a 20 year period and finding that 40 percent of reversals occurred in federal habeas proceedings, after multiple state courts had upheld the conviction and sentence);  Howard Mintz, Death Sentence Reversals Cast Doubt on System , MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 37 
 examples from the United States Supreme Court and the Ninth Circuit —courts that will have 
jurisdiction over the review of this case in the event of a death sentence:11 
• Andrus v. Texas , 590 U.S. ___ (June 15, 2020) (per curiam) (counsel provided deficient 
performance by “overlooking vast tranches of mitigating evidence” including the fact that 
his client  suffered “very pronounced trauma” and suffered from “affective psychosis” by 
the time he was eleven years old  and by failing to adequately investigate and rebut the 
State’s case in aggravation ; remand ed to lower court to address prejudice prong of 
Strickland) 
• Porter v. McCollum , 558 U.S. 30 (2009) (per curiam) (counsel provided ineffective 
assistance by failing to investigate mitigating evidence regarding defendant’s mental capacity, family background, or military service) 
• Rompilla v. Beard, 545 U.S. 374 (2005) (even when a capital defendant and his family members have said that no mitigating evidence is available, his lawyer is bound to conduct a social history investigation and adequately follow up on ‘red flags’; hiring three well -
reputed  mental health experts without conducting the proper life history investigation still 
constituted ineffective assistance of counsel)  
• Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U.S. 510 (2003) (counsel’s failure to fully investigate Wiggins’ background and present mitigating evidence of his “excruciating life history” violated his Sixth Amendment right to counsel) 
• Williams v. Taylor , 529 U.S. 362 (2000) (counsel ineffective for failing to uncover and 
present evidence of defendant’s “nightmarish childhood,” borderline mental retardation, and good conduct in prison) 
• Bemore v. Chappell , 788 F.3d 1151 (9th Cir. 2015)  (defendant prejudiced by counsel’s 
failure to further investigate mental health evidence after initial evaluation suggested 
further testing, choosing instead to go with “good guy with a drug problem” defense in sentencing, which was not only incomplete but opened the door to harmful rebuttal evide nce) 
• Doe v. Ayers , 782 F.3d 425 (9th Cir. 2015)  (defendant prejudiced by counsel’s failure to 
investigate and present mitigating evidence including child abuse and neglect, mental illness including PTSD and depression that he self -medicated for, and that defendant was 
sexually abused while previously i ncarcerated)  
• Stankewitz v. Wong, 698 F.3d 1163 (9th Cir. 2012)  (counsel failed to conduct adequate 
mitigation investigation that would have uncovered a traumatic childhood of abuse and 
 
Mercury News (April 13, 2002) (study on California death sentences found that the state Supreme Court overturns 10 percent of capital cases, but the 9
th Circuit overturns 62 percent of cases 
affirmed by the state Supreme Court, for a total reversal rate matching the national average, two out of three), available at https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/stories/death- sentence- reversals -cast-doubt-
on-system.  
 
11 Cases resulting in the death penalty undergo a unique, extensive appellate and post -
conviction process through both the state and federal courts, and this process generally last decades. It is not uncommon that cases are reversed 5, 10, or even 20 years into the future, resulting in both new trial or sentencing proceedings in the district court, and then beginning anew  the 
appellate process.  MOTION TO CONTINUE   Page 38  
 neglect, a history of mental illness, and substance abuse combined with lack of sleep prior 
to the murder)  
• Libberton v. Ryan, 583 F.3d 1147 (9th Cir. 2009) ( counsel failed to adequately investigate 
and present mitigating evidence, including that the co- defendant instigated the crimes and 
Libberton was “merely a follower,” and that he was seriously physically abused by his father and step -father growing up)  
• Correll v. Ryan, 539 F.3d 938 (9th Cir. 2008)  (counsel failed to adequately investigate and 
present mitigating and mental health evidence, which would have shown that the defendant endured an abusive childhood and was neglected, family history of incest, a serious head injury, and self -medication with drugs and alcohol from childhood)  
• Lambright v. Schriro, 490 F.3d 1103 (9th Cir. 2007)  (counsel failed to adequately 
investigate and present in sentencing the mitigating evidence of defendant’s trauma from serving in Vietnam, his long history of mental illness including suicide attempts and psychiatric hospitalizations, and his upbringing i n an abusive, unstable family living in 
extreme poverty)  
• Frierson v. Woodford, 463 F.3d 982 (9th Cir. 2006)  (counsel failed to uncover and present 
mitigating evidence including extensive history of drug use, organic brain dysfunction, significant head injuries, an IQ of 71, and a learning disability)  
• Hovey v. Ayers , 458 F.3d 892 (9th Cir. 2006)  (counsel ineffective for failing to adequately 
prepare and present mental health evidence; though the hired psychiatrist testified that defendant had schizophrenia, he had not been provided with relevant social history 
documents which would have significantly bolstered the diagnosis under scrutiny by prosecutors, who portrayed the doctor as uninformed and not credible)  
• Summerlin v. Schriro, 427 F.3d 623 (9th Cir. 2005)  (counsel failed to investigate and 
present mitigating evidence of a tortured childhood, a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia, organic brain damage, and a temporal lo be seizure disorder, and also failed to investigate 
and rebut the state’s evidence underlying the aggravating factors)  
• Daniels v. Woodford, 428 F.3d 1181 (9th Cir. 2005) (finding counsel ineffective and reversing the sentence due to counsel’s failure to pursue further mental health experts, instead relying on a psychologist “who was not qualified to testify in a capital case,” which resulted  in counsel not pursuing viable mental health defenses at trial due to the lack of 
qualified experts)  
 Mr. Kohberger deserves a fair trial from the outset to prevent an arbitrary or wrongful conviction 
and potential death sentence. These cases underscore the critical importance of thorough investigation before trial. This diligence is essential to avoid the  costly and time -consuming 
process of reversing a conviction and death sentence years or even decades later.  
   MOTION TO CONTINUE  Page 39 V
II. A Continuance is Reasonable and Necessary under the Circumstances.
While there is no mechanical test for determining whether a continuance should be granted,
a trial court cannot deny a continuance based on “a myopic insistence upon expeditiousness in the 
face of a justifiable request for delay.” Ungar v. Sarafite , 376 U.S. 575, 589 (1964).  In determining 
whether denial of a continuance request resulted in a violation of due process, the reviewing court 
looks to the circumstances of the case, “particularly [] the reasons presented to the trial judge at the time the request [was] denied.” Id. at 590.   
T
his request is not made lightly. Defense counsel has worked around the clock actively preparing for trial since appointment to this case, filed all motions in a timely manner, complied with expert disclosure deadlines, and had expected to proceed on schedule. However, it has become 
clear that without additional time, the defense cannot complete review of the necessary discovery, meaningfully respond to all of the State’s amended expert disclosures and incorporate the information  into an effective defense,  and finish critical sentencing phase investigations. While 
prompt administration of justice is important—to both the State and Mr. Kohberger —the 
constitutional guarantee of a fair trial outweighs modest delay. And, because the majority of cases ending in the death penalty are later overturned for error, the public interest lies in ensuring a fair trial in the first instance. A continuance will ensure that Mr. Kohberger’ s fundamental 
constitutional rights are honored, and that any verdict rendered rests on a fair and complete presentation of the facts, not on forced haste.  
DATED this ___20____ day of May, 2025. 
 _____________________________ 
ANNE C. TAYLOR  
ANNE TAYLOR LAW, PLLC  
MOTION TO CONTINUE  Page 40 CERTIFIC ATE OF DELIVERY 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___20____ day of May, 2025 addressed to: 
L
atah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net 
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net  
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov  
