Filed:05/23/2025 13:09:43
FourthJudicialDistrict,AdaCounty
TrentTripple,ClerkoftheCourt
AnneTaylorLaw,PLLC
AnneC.Taylor,Attorney atLawBy:DeputyClerk-
Waters,Renee
POBox2347
Coeurd'Alene,Idaho83816
Phone:(208)512-9611
iCourtEmail:info@annetaylorlaw.com
ElisaG.Massoth, PLLC
Attorney atLaw
P.O.Box1003
Payette,Idaho83661
Phone:(208)642-3797; Fax:(208)642-3799
BickaBarlow
ProHacVice
2358MarketStreet
SanFrancisco, CA94114
Phone:(415)553-4110
Assigned Attorney:
AnneC.Taylor,Attorney atLaw,BarNumber: 5836
ElisaG.Massoth, Attorney atLaw,BarNumber: 5647
BickaBarlow,Attorney atLaw,CABarNumber: 178723
JayW.Logsdon, FirstDistrictPublicDefender, BarNumber: 8759
INTHEDISTRICT COURTOFTHEFOURTHJUDICIAL DISTRICT OFTHE
STATEOFIDAHO,INANDFFORTHECOUNTYOFADA
CASENUMBER CR01-24-31665
OBJECTION TOTHECOURT'S
REQUEST FORTHEDEFENSE TO
SUBMITAREDACTED COPYOFEX
PARTEFILINGTOTHESTATESTATEOFIDAHO,
Plaintiff,
BRYANC.KOHBERGER,
Defendant
COMESNOW,BryanC.Kohberger, byandthroughhisattorneys ofrecord,andhereby
submitshisObjection toproviding aredacted copyofhisExParteSupplement tohisMotionto
Continue totheState.Notwithstanding thisobjection, Mr.Kohberger attaches hisproposed
redacted expartemotionandsupporting declaration asdirectedbytheCourt.
OBJECTION TOTHECOURT'S REQUEST FORDEFENSE TO
SUBMITAREDACTED COPYOFEXPARTEFILINGTOTHESTATE Page1OBJECTION TO THE COURT’S REQUEST FOR DEFENSE TO  
SUBMIT A REDACTED COPY OF EX PARTE FILING TO THE STATE  Page 2  
 Mr. Kohberger has a fundamental constitutional right to a complete and accurate record of 
all proceedings in his case, and he must be allowed the opportunity to make a complete record in 
order to afford adequate appellate review in the event of conviction. See, e.g., Griffin v. Illinois , 
351 U.S. 12 (1956); Roberts v. LaVallee , 389 U.S. 40 (1967).  
The ABA Guidelines specifically instruct capital counsel to tailor any legal arguments “to 
the particular facts and circumstances in the client’s case.” ABA Guideline 10.8, 31 H OFSTRA L. 
REV. at 1029.  In this circumstance, that Guideline require detailed information about why more 
time is required to complete the mitigation investigation prior to trial.   “counsel must… evaluate 
each potential [legal] claim in light of: (a) the unique characteristics of death penalty law and practice; and (b) the near certainty that all available avenues of post -conviction relief will be 
pursued in the event of conviction a nd imposition of a death sentence; and (c) the importance of 
protecting the client’s rights against later contentions by the government that the claim has been waived, defaulted, not exhausted, or otherwise forfeit ed”.   
Commentary to ABA Guideline 10.8, 31 H
OFSTRA L. REV. at 1030 (“One of the most 
fundamental duties of an attorney defending a capital case at trial is the preservation of any and all conceivable errors for each stage of appellate and post -conviction review. Failure to preserve an 
issue may result in the client being executed even though reversible error occurred at trial . For 
this reason, trial counsel in a death penalty case must be especially aware not only of strategies for winning at trial, but also of the heightened need to fully preserve all potential is sues for later 
review.” (emphasis added)).  
 Mr. Kohberger has the right to a confidential defense mitigation investigation  
Pursuant to Rule 1.6 of the Idaho Rules of Professional Conduct (Confidentiality of 
Information), counsel have an obligation to maintain confidentiality with respect to information relating to the representation of a client absent informed consent or implied authorization.  This 
ethical rule is broader than attorney -client privilege. It protects virtually everything the lawyer OBJECTION TO THE COURT’S REQUEST FOR DEFENSE TO  
SUBMIT A REDACTED COPY OF EX PARTE FILING TO THE STATE  Page 3  
 knows about the client’s matter, regardless of the source. Defense counsel is therefore ethically 
bound to not provide the prosecution with anything that is not required by statute.  
In addition to the  Rules of Professional Conduct, t he details of defense counsel’s 
investigation are also protected by the attorney work product doctrine.  See Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 (1947) (“In performing his various duties ... it is essential that a lawyer  work  with a 
certain degree of privacy, free from unnecessary intrusion by opposing parties and their counsel. Proper presentation of a client's case demands that he assemble information, sift what he considers to be the relevant from the irrelevant facts, prepare his legal theories and plan his strategy without undue and needless interference. That is the historical and the necessary way in which lawyers act within the framework of our system of jurisprudence to promote justice and to protect their clients’ interests.”).  
Finally, in support of his objection, Mr. Kohberger  relies on his Constitutional Rights .  The 
information contained in the ex parte’ filings fall under  Mr. Kohberger’s right to a confidential 
defense investigation which is  part and parcel of his right to effective assistance of counsel.   See, 
e.g., Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 691 (1984) (“[C]ounsel has a duty to make reasonable investigations or to make a reasonable decision that makes particular investigations unnecessary.”)  
Both the Sixth Amendment and the American Bar Association’s Guidelines for the 
Appointment and Performance of Defense Counsel in Death Penalty Cases impose obligations on defense counsel to conduct an unparalleled investigation in preparation for the penal ty phase of a 
capital trial.  As required the mitigation investigation requires extensive investigation into  personal 
and family history.  See Rompilla v. Beard, 545 U.S. 374, 374 (2005) (jury may have returned 
different verdict had it heard mitigating evidence that trial counsel did not investigate and uncover) ;  Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U.S. 510, 533 (2003)  (“A decision not to investigate [information 
that could bear on the penalty phase of a capital case] thus must be directly assessed for reasonableness in all the circumstances.”… counsel’s “partial presentation of a mitigation case OBJECTION TO THE COURT’S REQUEST FOR DEFENSE TO  
SUBMIT A REDACTED COPY OF EX PARTE FILING TO THE STATE  Page 4  
 suggest that their incomplete investigation was the result of inattention, not reasoned strategic 
judgment.”).  
Mr. Kohberger has an Eighth Amendment  right for the jury make an individualized 
sentencing decision with regard to life or death.  That means each juror must  be able to consider 
all mitigating evidence about the defendant’s character and life history.  See Woodson v. North 
Carolina, 428 U.S. 280 (1976) (consideration of the character of the defendant is “a constitutionally indispensable part of the process of inflicting the penalty of death”) ; Payne v. 
Tennessee, 501 U.S. 808, 822 (1991) (“[V]irtually no li mits are placed on the relevant mitigating 
evidence a capital defendant may introduce concerning his own circumstances.” ); Tennard v. 
Dretke, 542 U.S. 274 (2004) (“The Eighth Amendment requires that the jury be able to consider and give effect to a capital defendant’s mitigating evidence . . . . [T]he question is simply whether the evidence is of such a character that it might serve as a basis for a sentence less than death .”).  
Ex Parte Pleadings are important for  the Court understand how much investigation remains 
outstanding, and the importance of these areas of investigation, before the  trial date. Specific 
avenues of mitigation investigation that remain outstanding in this  case have been the cause for 
reversal in other capital cases, because the jury did not have all  relevant information in making its 
individualized sentencing determination pursuant to the 8
th Amendment.  
Counsel cannot discuss the specifics of the ongoing mitigation investigation in open court 
in front of the State and public. The ABA Guidelines specifically direct counsel in a capital case 
to request resources  ex parte and in camera because “the defense should not be required to disclose 
privileged communications or strategy to the prosecution.” ABA Guidelines at 1004.  
Counsel intends to keep detailed records and lists of everything that remains incomplete 
due to lack of sufficient time to continue the investigation. In the event of a conviction and death 
sentence, this will ultimately become the blueprint for post- conviction counsel’s claim that Mr.  OBJECTION TO THE COURT’S REQUEST FOR DEFENSE TO  
SUBMIT A REDACTED COPY OF EX PARTE FILING TO THE STATE  Page 5  
 Kohberger  received ineffective assistance of counsel and did not receive an individualized 
sentencing determination as the 8th Amendment requires. Counsel should have the opportunity to 
share this information with the court, ex parte, so as to not leave this Court guessing about the 
grounds for reversal that will exist.   
Making a complete record about what remains to be done in the mitigation investigation—
including what avenues of investigation are still ongoing, including known witnesses and records that remain outstanding, and emerging mitigation themes that require com plete investigation and 
may require expert assistance—will inevitably reveal significant defense strategy, work -product, 
and information gleaned from confidential attorney- client communication. It would require the 
defense to reveal the theories of defense  at the penalty phase, the results of investigation or 
consultation that has already taken place, and information that is anticipated to be gleaned from witnesses and records. The State is not entitled to this information about the defense’s confidential investigation.    
Prosecutors have an ethical and legal obligation to seek justice over convictions. See 
Berger v. United States, 295 U.S. 78 (1935); Idaho Rules of Professional Conduct (IRPC) Rule 
3.8, (Special Duties of a Prosecutor). When defense counsel requires a continuance to complete the constitutionally -required mitigation  investigation, the State has no legitimate interest in 
objecting, for any conviction and/or death sentence obtained under such circumstances would rest on a constitutionally defective foundation. As such, courts reviewing death sentences have recognized that "[w]hen attorney error amounts to constitutional ly ineffective assistance of 
counsel, that error is imputed to the State. Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U.S. 722, 754 (1991). For when a State obtains a conviction against a defendant who was denied the effective assistance of counsel, 'it is the State that unconstitutionally deprives the defendant of his liberty.' Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U.S. 335, 343, 100 S.Ct. 1708, 64 L.Ed.2d 333 (1980)."   Deck v. Steele, 249 F. Supp. OBJECTION TO THE COURT’S REQUEST FOR DEFENSE TO  
SUBMIT A REDACTED COPY OF EX PARTE FILING TO THE STATE  Page 6  
 3d 991, 1081 (E.D. Mo. 2017) (rev'd on procedural grounds by Deck v. Jennings , 978 F.3d 578 
(8th Cir. 2020)).  
Other p roceedings such as those related to funding are permitted to occur in an ex parte  
fashion in order to preserve confidentiality.  The comprehensive information about the entirety of 
the ongoing mitigation investigation would contain significantly more information than would be contained in a funding request for an expert. There would no logical consistency to allowing 
funding requests to proceed in such a manner, while simultaneously requiring counsel to reveal the full mitigation investigation and strategy in order to secure adequate time to complete the investigation to constitutional standards.   
Thus, in order to maintain confidential communications and strategy, and make a complete 
record to this court demonstrating the need for additional time to investigate, Mr. Kohberger  must 
be permitted leave to file an ex parte brief, and if necessary, have an ex parte hearing about the 
outstanding mitigation investigation.    This court has authority to permit an ex parte filing even in 
the absence of explicit statutory authority. Doing so is necessary to protect Mr. Kohberger ’s 
constitutional rights, and constitutional rights always reign supreme over state statutory schemes.   
Moreover, because there is a “special need for reliability and fairness in death penalty 
cases, the Eighth Amendment does, and must, apply to the death penalty ‘with special force.’” Glossip v. Gross , 576 U.S. 863, 924 (2015) (Breyer, J., dissenting) (quoting Roper v. Simmons , 543 
U.S. 551, 568 (2005)). Heightened constitutional obligations apply in death penalty cases because 
a life -or-death decision is “qualitatively different” from decisions involved in any other kind of 
case, Woodson v. North Carolina, 428 U.S. 280, 304 (1976), and the nature, quality, and gravity of 
death cases makes the defense of capital cases fundamentally unlike any other type of legal endeavor. See, e.g., Sawyer v. Whitley , 505 U.S. 333, 343 (1992). Things that may be perfectly 
acceptable in ordinary murder trials may not pass constitutional scrutiny in capital cases. See OBJECTION TO THE COURT’S REQUEST FOR DEFENSE TO  
SUBMIT A REDACTED COPY OF EX PARTE FILING TO THE STATE  Page 7 
 Caspari v. Bolden, 510 U.S. 383, 393 (1994) (“[T]ime and again the [U.S. Supreme] Court has 
condemned procedures in capital cases that might be completely acceptable in an ordinary case.”). This Court must afford heightened constitutional protection in favor of the defendant when interpreting the requirements of the state and federal constitutions as applicable to t his case.  
DATED this ___ 23____ day of May , 2025. 
 
          
       _____________________________ 
       ANNE C. TAYLOR  
       ANNE TAYLOR LAW, PLLC  
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___23____ day of April, 2025 addressed to: 
 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov   
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net    
Jay Logsdon – via Email: Jay.Logsdon@spd.idaho.gov 
Bicka Barlow, Attorney at Law – via Email: bickabarlow@sbcglobal.net   
Jeffery Nye, Deputy Attorney General – via Email: Jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov     
 
       
 
        
 
 
