Wendy J. Olson, Bar No. 7634  
wendy.olson@stoel.com  
Cory M. Carone, Bar No. 11422  
cory.carone@stoel.com  
STOEL RIVES LLP 
101 S. Capitol Boulevard, Suite 1900  
Boise, ID  83702  
Telephone:  208.389.9000  
Facsimile:  208.389.9040  
Attorneys for Intervenors  
  
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
STATE OF IDAHO,  
Plaintiff,  
v. 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
Defendant.  Case No. CR29-22-2805 
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera 
Access in the Courtroom  
 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; RADIO 
TELEVISION DIGITAL NEWS 
ASSOCIATION; SINCLAIR MEDIA OF 
BOISE, LLC/KBOI -TV (BOISE); STATES 
NEWSROOM DBA IDAHO CAPITAL SUN; 
TEGNA INC./KREM (SPOKANE), KTVB 
(BOISE) AND KING (SEATTLE); 
EASTIDAHONEWS .COM; THE LEWISTON 
TRIBUNE; WASHINGTON STATE 
ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS; 
IDAHO PRESS CLUB; IDAHO EDUCATION 
NEWS; KXLY- TV/4 NEWS NOW AND 
KAPP/KVEW -TV—MORGAN MURPHY 
MEDIA KXLY- TV/4 NEWS NOW; SCRIPPS 
MEDIA, INC., DBA KIVI -TV, A DELAWARE  Electronically Filed
6/2/2023 3:51 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkCORPORATION; THE SPOK ESMAN -
REVIEW/COWLES COMPANY; THE NEW 
YORK TIMES COMPANY; LAWNEWZ, 
INC.; ABC, INC.; WP COMPANY LLC, DBA 
THE WASHINGTON POST; SOCIETY OF 
PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS ; THE 
MCCLATCHY COMPANY, LLC ; and THE 
SEATTLE TIMES,  
 
Intervenors.  
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
Page  
 
 -i-  
 I. INTRODUCTION  ...................................................................................................................... 1 
II. BACKGROUND  ....................................................................................................................... 1 
III. LEGAL STANDARD .............................................................................................................. 2 
IV. ARGUMENT  ........................................................................................................................... 3 
A. The community’s interest in the case, as reflected in the First Amendment, 
favors allowing camera access.  .............................................................................. 3 
B. Under Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45’s requirements, coverage will be unobtrusive and consistent with the rights of all involved. ............................... 6
 
C. Recent high -profile cases show that the Court should allow camera access.  ........ 9 
V. CONCLUSION  ....................................................................................................................... 10  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 1 
 I.  INTRODUCTION 
As the C ourt knows , this case and the murders that preceded it have forever impacted the 
University of Idaho, Moscow, and the State of Idaho. The people impacted , many of whose lives 
are forever changed and sense of security undermined, de serve an opportunity to see and hear the 
court proceedings for themselves , but t he realities of everyday life prevent most citizens from 
attending the proceedings in person. Intervenors , through print and electronic coverage, serve as 
surrogates or facilit ators for those who have been so impacted —and for others who wish to observe 
their criminal justice system at work . Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45 appreciates that fact, 
and it allows this Court to authorize “audio/visual coverage” of the proceedings here, subject to 
carefully crafted rules designed to protect the State’s and Mr. Kohberger’s constitutional interests, 
the privacy concerns of jurors and trial participants, and the dignity of the courtroom. Audio/visual 
coverage will provide the best oppor tunity for impacted community members in Moscow and 
throughout the state to receive contemporaneous, complete, and objective evidence about this case 
as it will be presented in the courtroom: in a rational, dispassionate, and orderly manner . 
Intervenors thus urge the Court to exercise its discretion to allow such coverage.  
II.  BACKGROUND 
In November 2022, four University of Idaho students were murdered at a home near  
campus. The tragedy caused sorrow and fear throughout the University of Idaho, the Moscow 
community, the State of Idaho, neighboring Washington, and the nation. The community followed 
the investigation of the murders closely, many fearing for their safety on or near campus an d 
providing information to law enforcement whenever possible.  
In December 2022, Bryan C. Kohberger was arrested and charged for the murders. He has 
since been indicted, arraigned , and set for trial in October 2023. The community is eager to learn 
what the  evidence shows about Mr. Kohberger  and these heinous acts and if his prosecution will  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom - 2 
 bring closure, and a return to a sense of safety, after this great tragedy. Mr. Kohberger’s trial will 
likely be the only time when the community can learn directly about any inculpatory or exculpatory 
evidence, learn about the thoroughness of the investigation or any missteps, assess the fairness of 
Mr. Kohberger’s prosecution, and evaluate whether this great tragedy has ended. For these and 
other reasons, this case remains the first case listed on the Judicial Branch’s Cases of Interest, even above the prosecution of Chad Daybell and Lori Vallow.
1 
Intervenors are a coalition of media companies  that have and will report on Mr. 
Kohberger’s prosecution. On May 1, 2023, they filed a Motion to Intervene and a Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order along with accompanying memoranda. At a May 22, 2023 Scheduling Conference on those motions, the Court invited Intervenors to submit this supplemental memorandum on cam era access in the courtroom.  
III.  LEGAL STANDARD  
Recognizing the benefits to the community and the integrity of the justice system, Idaho is 
more open to media coverage of trials  than other states .
2 It allows “audio/visual coverage” of 
public district court  proceedings, which means “broadcast, video, audio, and photographic 
coverage” with broadcasting including a wide range of transmissions such as “television, radio, Internet, email or streaming.” Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(a) . Accompany that 
authorization are many safeguards to maintain confidences, limit dissemination of information that would not be accessible to those attending in person ensuring the right to a fair trial, protect privacy 
interests, and preserve the dignity of the courtroom. Id.   
Most important  is the presiding judge’s discretion. The presiding judge maintains complete 
 
1 The Cases of Interest page may be viewed here: https://coi.isc.idaho.gov/ .  
2 Cameras in the Courts: A State -by-State Coverage Guide, Radio Television Digital News 
Association  (last visited June 2, 2023), https://www.rtdna.org/cameras- in-the-courts .  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 3 
 discretion to allow or limit audio/visual coverage free from appellate review. Idaho Court 
Administrative Rule 45(b).  
IV.  ARGUMENT  
The many com munity members throughout the University of Idaho, Moscow, the S tate of 
Idaho , and the cities in which the victims’ family members reside who are  impacted by the heinous 
crimes committed this past November should have  an opportunity to see and hear these 
proceedings  for themselves . Audio/visual coverage will provide the best, most objective 
opportunity for the many community members who will be unable to attend in person. The Court 
should thus afford those community members that opportunity, while strictly enforcing (as it must) 
Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45’s safeguards to protect all other interests. The recent prosecutions of Derek Chauvin and Lori Vallow —not to mention Mr. Kohberger’s arraignment —
show that allowing audio/visual coverage is the right  decision , as Mr. Chauvin’s conviction after 
a broadcasted trial was largely accepted whereas Ms. Vallow’s conviction after a trial that was not 
broadcasted is currently being questioned after reports that a juror relied on evidence that was not presented in court .  
A. The community’s interest in the case, as reflected in the First Amendment, favors  
allowing camera access.  
Public court proceedings are central to our justice system. “[I] t would be difficult to single 
out any aspect of government of higher conce rn and importance to the people than the manner in 
which criminal trials are conducted [.]” Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v. Virginia, 448 U.S. 555, 575 
(1980). As a result, “the right to attend criminal trials is implicit in the guarantees of the First  
Amendme nt[.]” Id. at 580 (footnote omitted) . There is thus a presumption of openness of court 
proceedings that “may be overcome only by an overriding interest based on findings that closure is essential to preserve higher values and is narrowly tailored to serve that interest.” Press- Enter .  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 4 
 Co. v. Super . Ct., 464 U.S. 501, 510 (1984). 
The First Amendment guarantees  this right of access because it “enhances the quality and 
safeguards the integrity of the factfinding process, with benefits to both the defendant and to 
society as a whole.” Globe Newspaper Co. v. Super. Ct ., 457 U.S. 596, 606 (1982). “[P]ublic 
access to  the criminal trial fosters an appearance of fairness, thereby heightening public respect 
for the judicial process.” Id.; see also Press- Enter. Co., 464 U.S. at  508 (“[K]nowledge that anyone 
is free to attend gives assurance that established procedures are being followed and that deviations 
will become known.”  (emphasis omitted) ). 
 Access also  serves a therapeutic and “prophylactic purpose, providing an outlet for 
community concern, hostility, and emotion.” Richmond Newspapers , 448 U.S. at 571. “Without 
an awareness that society’s responses to criminal conduct are underway, natural human reactions 
of outrage and protest are frustrated and may manifest themselves in some form of vengeful ‘self -
help[.]’” Id.  
Considering these many interests furthered by open trials , mere openness to those who can 
travel to the courthouse is not enough. “Tr ial courts are obligated to take every reasonable measure  
to accommodate public attendance at criminal trials.” Presley v. Georgia , 558 U.S. 209, 210, 215 
(2010) (per curiam) (emphasis added) (finding constitutional violation where trial court excluded defendant’s uncle from voir dire because 42 potential jurors would be sitting throughout courtroom 
and “[t]here just isn’t space for [the  public] to sit in the audience”); s ee also Davis v. United States , 
247 F. 394, 395, 399 (8th Cir. 1917) (per curiam) (allowing only 25 members of the public to attend a trial when the courtroom could hold 100 spectators was reversible error).  
Allowing audio/visual coverage  is a reasonable measure that this Court can take to ensure 
all members of the affected communities have a chance to  view Mr. Kohberger’s prosecution. To  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 5 
 be clear, Intervenors are not asserting here that the First Amendment compels  the Court to allow 
audio/visual coverage . Intervenors are arguing that the Court should exercise the discretion 
afforded to it by Idaho law to allow more citizens to observe the courtroom proceedings.  
Ideally “every citizen should be able to satisfy himself with his own eyes as to the mode in 
which a public duty is performed.” Cowley v. Pulsifer , 137 Mass. 392, 394 (1884)  (J., Oliver 
Wendell Holmes). But the reality is that most people affiliated with the University of Idaho, 
Moscow, Pullman, and the other communities touched by these crimes , as well as those in 
Pennsylvania where Mr. Kohberger is from, simply cannot attend the court proceedings in person. 
The limitations of daily life mean that most citizens must learn about Mr. Kohberger’s court proceedings not by attending themselves, but through the news media. Richmond Newspapers , 448 
U.S. at 572–73 (recognizing the need for special access by media representatives, who serve as surrogates for the public.) . 
This case is newsworthy and will be extens ively covered by the news media no matter if  
electronic journalists may use  the tools of their trade inside the courtroom. While both print and 
electronic media serve that important surrogate role, only the electronic media can provide  the 
public with a cl ose visual and aural approximation of witnessing a trial without physical 
attendance—that is, broadcast comes closest to allowing citizens  to observe the proceedings with 
their own eyes  and ears . Permitting recording and telecast, consistent with Idaho law , of the 
proceedings that take place inside the courtroom will ensure that the information conveyed by the news media to the public is contemporaneous, complete, and objective. Such coverage will convey the evidence as it is received in the courtroom setting—in a rational, dispassionate, and orderly manner.   
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 6 
 Without a camera in the courtroom as an objective observer, the public will be forced to 
rely on the  selective summaries of those members of the media who are able to secure a coveted 
spot in the courtr oom. On the other hand, electronic coverage of proceedings allows citizens to 
have a first -hand view of the case as it proceeds under the control of the presiding judge, and 
allows them to make their own unfiltered assessments. Given the effect of  the crim es alleged on 
the community at large, it is particularly important that, in order to understand whatever verdict is 
rendered, the same community be able to see and hear the case presented by the prosecution and the defense. As the  U.S. Supreme Court noted,  “[p]eople in an open society do not demand 
infallibility from their institutions , but it [will be] difficult for them to accept what they are 
prohibited from observing.” Id.  at 572.   
B. Under Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45’s requirements, coverage will be 
unobtrusive  and consistent with the rights of all involved.  
Intervenors do not know the State’s or Mr. Kohberger’s position on cameras in the 
courtroom, but they assume that if eithe r object , it will be because of perceived effects on the right 
to a fair trial, the privacy interests of witnesses, and courtroom decorum. Idaho Court 
Administrative Rule 45, which Intervenors of course must and will strictly follow, addresses all 
those co ncerns.  
If community members are allowed to observe audio/visual coverage of the proceedings, 
their observations will be no greater than those of community members who  are able to attend in 
person. And a criminal defendant’s right to a fair trial is not in fringed when open proceedings are 
exposed to even more sunshine. Rule 45 does not permit  coverage of more sensitive aspects of the 
proceedings like conferences between Mr. Kohberger and his attorneys , conferences between co -
counsel, side bars between couns el and the Court, notes on counsel table, unadmitted exhibits, in-
camera sessions, closed proceedings, or judicial deliberations. Idaho Court Administrative Rule  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 7 
 45(c). The Court may also impose  limitations on the coverage of the jury, including during jur y 
selection. Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(h)(1). And i f there are any concerns about the acute 
effect of coverage on a particular witness, then those concerns can be addressed on an 
individualized basis. Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(d)  (“The pr esiding judge may exclude 
audio/video coverage of a particular participant or direct that the identity or audio of a participant be concealed upon a determination that such coverage will have a substantial adverse effect upon 
a particular individual.” ). 
There are also rules to ensure coverage has no or minimal effects on courtroom decorum. 
For example:  
• The news representatives must determine among themselves who will capture 
photos or recordings and how that coverage will be pooled, if at all, Idaho Court 
Administrative Rule 45(d);  
• No electronic flash or artificial lighting may be used, Idaho Court Administrative 
Rule 45(h)(2) & (4);  
• Camera noise and distractions must be kept to a minimum, Idaho Court 
Administrative Rule 45(h)(3) & (4);  
• No video or television camera may give indication of whether it is operating, Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(h)(5);  
• Media representatives must be in position at least 15 minutes before court begins 
and shall not change positions while court is in session, Idaho Court Administrative 
Rule 45(h)(7);  
• Media representatives must present neatly and conduct themselves in keeping with 
the dignity of the court proceedings, Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(h)(8);  and  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom  - 8 
 • Media coverage should be pooled to limit the number of media repre sentatives in 
the courtroom , Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(h)(9) & (10).  
What  is more, allowing coverage will reduce the amount of foot traffic, and the 
corresponding potential for disruption, at the courthouse. The coverage of Mr. Kohberger’s 
arraignment provides a prime example. The Associated Press, just one of the Intervenors, intended to send two or three representa tives to cover Mr. Kohberger’s arraignment. Declaration  of Gillian 
Flaccus , ¶ 2. But when the Associated Press learned that there would be pool coverage of the 
arraignment, it instead sent zero representatives to attend in person because it knew the pool 
coverage would provide the information needed to accurately and fairly report on the arraignment . 
Id. Relatedly, Intervenors expect that future proceedings will be at capacity . Allowing cameras in 
the courtroom will reduce competi tion for the limited seats and ensure that those who are unable 
to secure a seat (including report ers) can still observe the proceedings.  
To be sure, if cameras are allowed in the courtroom, more  impacted community 
members —including members of the Universi ty of Idaho, Moscow, and Idaho communities —will 
be able to see and listen to the courtroom proceedings with their own eyes and ears. But the existence of more observers should be viewed positively, not negatively. All impacted community 
members , not just t hose that have the time and resources to wait in line and attend in person, should 
have the opportunity to experience the benefits of an open courtroom proceeding. The rights of the trial participants will not be affected, as those listening or watching fr om afar will not obtain any 
information that is unavailable in the courtroom. In fact, it would be better for the State and Mr. Kohberger if impacted community members can ob serve the rational, dispassionate, and orderly 
presentation of all the facts, rath er than relying on repackaging from  potentially  unethical outlets 
or anonymous online commentators. Mr. Kohberger would also further benefit from the many  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom - 9 
 advantages of an open trial. Richmond Newspapers , 448 U.S. 555 at 569 (“Both Hale in the 17th 
century  and Blackstone in the 18th saw the importance of openness to the proper functioning of a 
trial; it gave assurance that the proceedings were conducted fairly to all concerned, and it 
discouraged perjury, the misconduct of participants, and decisions based on secret bias or partiality. ”). The proceedings themselves will be more streamlined, as there will be less need and 
competition each day to secure a spot outside the courthouse or inside the courtroom. And while Intervenors are confident that it will not happen, if for any reason issues do emerge, the Court can immediately take corrective action . Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45(a) . 
C. Recent high -profile cases show that the Court should allow camera access.  
The recent trials of Derek Chauvin and Lori Vallow show that the Court should allow 
camera access here.  
The criminal trial of Derek Chauvin posed several unprecedented challenges . Few, if any, 
cases gave rise to social justice movements the size of what George Floyd inspired.
3 And it all 
happened during some of the darkest times of the Covid- 19 pandemic. The Hon. Peter A. Cahill 
presided over Mr. Chauvin’s trial. At the time, he “opposed the use of cameras in the courtroom in criminal cases.” Declaration of Wendy J. Olson, Ex. A. But he ultimately allowed them during Mr. Chauvin’s trial, and that experience “changed [his] opinion such that [he] now believe[s] cameras in the courtroom can be helpful in promoting trust and confidence in the judic ial process 
and are sometimes necessary to safeguard both the defendant’s right to a public trial and the public’s right of access to criminal trials. ” Id. To be sure, Judge Cahill continues to advocate for 
careful regulation and the exercise of discretion . Id. But in his view, “there should be a presumption 
 
3 Larry Buchanan  et al. , Black Lives Matter May Be the Largest Movement in U.S. History, N.Y. 
Times (July 3, 2020), https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/03/us/george-floyd-protests-
crowd -size.html.   
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom - 10 
 that cameras be allowed in trials and sentencings.” Id.  
By contrast, in the recent Lori Vallow trial, the Court did not allow cameras in the 
courtroom during trial except when the jury returned the ver dict. The inability to view audio/visual 
coverage of the trial did not detract from the public’s interest in the trial. But rather than watching  
and listening objectively to what occurred in the courtroom, citizens could see only stale images 
and were enti rely dependent on the quality of the reporting from those who were able to access the 
proceedings. Now, Ms. Vallow is challenging her conviction, arguing that a juror relied on 
evidence that was not presented in the courtroom. Because most members of the public could not view the proceedings in real time or review recordings of the proceedings now, they are unable to assess for themselves whether Ms. Vallow’s assertions about what was presented are correct. That 
creates  potential doubt, within the community, about the criminal justice system that could have 
been avoided . Nate Eaton, J  Juror Responds A fter Lori Vallow Daybell’s Attorneys A sk for a N ew 
Trial, EastIdahoNews.com (May 30, 2023), 
https://www.eastidahonews.com/2023/05/juror-
responds- after-lori-vallow-daybells- attorneys -ask-for-a-new- trial/.  
These contrasting experiences in recent high- profi le cases show that, as it did at Mr. 
Kohberger’s arraignment, the Court should at least start by allowing audio/visual coverage. Intervenors are confident that the Court, with the benefit of hindsight, will be satisfied with that decision. And if for any r eason issues emerge, again, the Court can take immediate corrective 
action.  
V.  CONCLUSION 
Intervenors request that the Court allow audio/visual coverage consistent with  Idaho Court 
Administrative  Rule 45.  
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom - 11 
 DATED:  June 2 , 2023.  
 STOEL RIVES LLP 
 
 
 
/s/  Wendy J. Olson     
Wendy J. Olson 
Cory M. Carone 
Attorneys for Intervenors 
 
 
 
   
Supplemental Memorandum on Camera Access in the Courtroom - 12 
 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
I HEREBY CERTIFY  that on the 2nd day of June 2023, I served a true and correct copy 
of the within and foregoing upon the following named parties by the method indicated below, 
and addressed to the following:  
Latah County Prosecuto r’s Office  
William W. Thompson, Jr. Prosecuting Attorney 
Latah County Courthouse 
P.O. Box 8068 Moscow, ID  83843 
 ___  Hand Delivered  
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail 
        Via email  
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 paservice@latahcounty.id.gov 
  
Anne Taylor  
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 9000 
Coeur d’Alene, ID  83816  ___  Hand Delivered  
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at ataylor@kcgov.us   X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
           pdfax@kcgov.us 
  
Jeff Nye  
Ingrid Batey  
Deputy Attorney General P.O. Box 83720 Boise, ID  83720 ___  Hand Delivered  
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov       ingrid.batey@ag.idaho.gov         Via iCourt efile & serve  at:  
  
Shanon Gray  
2175 N. Mountain View Road Moscow, ID  83843    
 ___  Hand Delivered  
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email  
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 shanon@graylaw.org 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC  
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 Payette, ID  83661 ___  Hand Delivered  
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at emassoth@kmrs.net   X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 emassoth@kmrs.net  
  
      /s/  Wendy J. Olson     
      Wendy J. Olson 
 