STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  1 LATAH COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S OFFICE   
WILLIAM  W. THOMPSON, JR., ISB No. 2613 
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY  
ASHLEY S. JENNINGS, ISB No . 8491 
SENIOR DEPUTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY  
JOSHUA D. HURWIT, ISB. No . 9527 
SPECIAL DEPUTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY  
Latah County Courthouse 
522 S. Adams Street, Ste. 211 
Moscow, ID 83843 
Phone: (208) 883-2246 
paservice@latah countyid.gov  
 
 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT  OF THE FOURTH DISTRICT OF THE  
 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF ADA 
 
 
 
STATE OF IDAHO,  Case No. CR01 -24-31665  
                        Plaintiff,   
 STATE’S OPPOSITION TO 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO 
CONTINUE  
V.  
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
                         Defendant.  
 
  
 COMES NOW the State of Idaho, by and through the Latah County Prosecuting  
Attorney, and submits the following opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Continue (the “Motion”).   
INTRODUCTION  
 It is time to try this case.  Defendant was arrested in late December of 2022  and was 
indicted in May of 2023.  He  successfully moved  to transfer  venue to Ada County.  In October Electronically Filed
6/5/2025 3:56 PM
Fourth Judicial District, Ada County
Trent Tripple, Clerk of the Court
By: Jennifer Keyes, Deputy ClerkSTATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  2 2024, this Court entered its Scheduling Order1 setting deadlines for pretrial motions and expert 
disclosures.  Defendant complied with those deadlines without moving for a continuance , 
including by disclosing six expert reports for the penalty phase , disclosing over 2,100 pages of 
purported mitigation materials , listing 55 penalty phase  witnesses, and identifying 132 exhibits he 
may introduce during the penalty phase of trial .   
But now, after all discovery deadlines have passed and after the Court conducted the  
pre-trial conference, Defendant seeks a trial continuance of unspecified length .  He bases his 
request  on his claim that his  mitigation investigation is incomplete.  While State is unable to see 
whether Defendant’s ex parte  filing to the Court contains specifics, his Motion does not .  
Defendant has not shared  what  new evidentiary materials he seeks to obtain or how additional 
investigation will actually produce them.  Overa ll, the record before the Court shows that 
Defendant’s investigation has  already plowed the necessary ground.   
 While Defendant is fully entitled to due process , this Court should exercise its broad 
discretion to  deny Defendant’s eleventh- hour Motion.  First, Defendant cannot show good cause 
or prejudice .  Even under  the heightened, non-binding ABA standards he seeks to impose on the 
Court, his counsel’s resources and investigation to date have been adequate, even setting aside that 
the defense team still has more time to prepare its  mitigation case.  Moreover, Idaho’s Constitution 
also grants the victims the right t o a “timely disposition” of this case.  The Court should give these 
victims’ rights substantial weight in considering the Motion.  Finally, while the publicity surrounding this trial is a challenge, Defendant has not shown—and cannot show —that continuing 
this trial will make things any easier .  It is just as likely that delay will make it harder to seat a jury.  
 
1  Redacted Order Governing Further Criminal Proceedings and Notice of Trial Setting, Oct . 9, 2024.  STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  3 For all these reasons, the Court should deny Defendant’s Motion.  
PROCEDURAL AND FACTUAL BACKGROUND  
Defendant was appointed his lead counsel in December of 2022.  In March 2023, a second 
attorney was appointed to represent him.  Then, in February of this year , a third attorney was 
appointed to the defense team.  The First District Public Defender has also been participating in 
the defense.  In addition to his  lawyers (and their staff), Defendant has two experienced 
investigators and a mitigation specialist working on his behalf. 
In January 2024, Defendant moved for a change of venue from Latah County due to the 
publicity surrounding the case and the size of Latah County.  His motion was granted, and the case 
was moved to Ada County.  On October 9, 2024, t his Court issued the operative Scheduling Order 
that contained deadlines for motions, expert disclosures, and pre -trial filings.   
More recently, at the pretrial motion s hearing on April 9, 2025, the Court advised 
Defendant’s counsel  to ask for more resources if the defense team needed assistance reviewing 
discovery.  The State does not know if this occurred.  
Throughout the case, Defendant has been able to comply with the deadlines in the 
Scheduling Order.  Pertinent to the instant Motion, Defendant has:  
• On January 23, 2025, made his guilt phase expert disclosures, consisting of reports 
from 16 experts, including a psychologist who conducted a mental health examination 
of Defendant (Dr. Orr) and a forensic psychiatrist who researched his life history (Dr. Ryan);  
• On March 3, 2025, supplemented his guilt phase expert disclosures with reports from two additional experts;  
• As of June  2025, had disclosed in discovery over 2,500 photos  and videos , over 3,500 
pages of investigat ive materials , and many megabytes of electronic data  related to the 
guilt phase;  STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  4 • On March 31, 2025, made his penalty phase expert disclosures, consisting of amended 
reports from Dr. Orr and Dr. Ryan, respectively, plus reports from four additional experts, three of whom are behavioral health/neurology professionals; and  
• As of June  2025, had disclosed approximately 2,100 pages of purported mitigation 
materials and identified 55 defense witnesses and 132 defense exhibits for potential use 
during the penalty phase in this case.  
Defendant also opposed the State’s M otion for Examination of  Defendant  Pursuant  to 
Idaho Code  §18-207 and for an Extension of Time to Complete Rebuttal Penalty Phase Expert 
Disclosures (argued May 5, 2025).  At that time, Defendant did not preview for the State or the 
Court that he would seek a trial continuance, and the Court denied the State’s request for 
personality testing by its expert, in part, because the pending trial date  conflicted with the time that 
would be necessary  to explore that issue . 
LEGAL BACKGROUND  
 “Trial judges necessarily require a great deal of latitude in scheduling trials. ”  State v. 
Cagle , 891 P.2d 1054, 1057 ( Idaho Ct. App. 1995).  Accordingly, “[t]he decision to grant or deny 
a motion for a continuance rests within the sound discretion of the trial court. ”  State v. Ransom , 
864 P.2d 149, 152 ( Idaho 1993) .  When reviewing a trial court ’s decision for an abuse of discretion, 
Idaho appellate courts  analyze “ [w]hether the trial court[:] (1) correctly perceived the issue as one 
of discretion; (2) acted within the outer boundaries of its di scretion; (3) acted consistently with the 
legal standards applicable to the specific choice available to it; and (4) reached its decision by the 
exercise of reason.”  State v. Radue , 564 P.3d 1230, 1244 ( Idaho 2025).   
The United States Supreme Court has held that the  denial of a motion for a continuance is 
grounds for relief  only where the trial court’s action “is so arbitrary as to violate due process.”  
Ungar v. Safafite , 376 U.S. 575, 589 (1964) .  Similarly, under Idaho law, “unless an appellant STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  5 shows that his or her substantial rights have been prejudiced by reason of a denial of his or her 
motion for a continuance, appellate courts can only conclude that there was no abuse of discretion. ”  
Cagle , 891 P.2d at  1057 .  “The bare claim that additional investigation could have been conducted 
is not sufficient to demonstrate unfair prejudice so as to support a motion for a continuance.”  State v. Tapia, 899 P.2d 959, 965 ( Idaho 1995) ; see also Rowe v. Katavich, No. CV 13 –2916 CAS 
(JCG) , 2014 WL 4244336, at *2 (C.D. Cal. Aug. 26, 2014) (reviewing Ninth Circuit caselaw and 
explaining that there are no “mechanical tests” for deciding when such a denial violates due process but that , “at a minimum, some showing of actual prejudice must be made ”).
2 
In exercising their discretion, trial courts are  also guided by the Victims’ Rights 
Amendment to the Idaho Constitution (Art. I § 22) and Idaho Code § 19- 5306.  Both provisions 
entitle  victims to “ a timely disposition of the case .”  Section 19- 5306(3) expressly provides that 
this right  “shall apply equally to the immediate families of homicide victims .” 
ARGUMENT  
Defendant couches his Motion in terms of his constitutional rights to due process, to 
effective assistance of counsel, to an individualized sentencing determination, and to a fair trial in 
light of intense media coverage .  But he has not demonstrated that these  rights —which must  be 
evaluated  alongside  the victims’ rights  and the overall administration of justice —will be violated 
if this case proceeds as currently scheduled.  For the reasons discussed below, the Court should 
deny his Motion.  
 
2  In considering a motion for a continuance, Ninth Circuit precedent holds that a trial court “must 
consider: (1) the defendant’s diligence prior to the requested continuance; (2) whether the continuance 
would have served a useful purpose; (3) the possible inconvenience to the prosecution and/or court; 
and (4) whether the defendant wa s prejudiced by the denial of the requested continuance.”  Id.  (citing 
Armant v. Marquez, 772 F.2d 552, 556 (9th Cir. 1985)).  STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  6 I. The Court Should Exercise Its Discretion to Deny Defendant’s Motion  Because He 
Has No t Shown Good Cause  for a Continuance or That He Will Be Prejudiced at 
Trial . 
The Court should deny Defendant’s Motion because he cannot show good cause or 
potential prejudice.  Procedurally, he does not explain why he waited to seek a continuance until 
after discovery  closed , expert disclosure  deadlines passed , and the pretrial conference happened.  
Substantively, he ignores Idaho Supreme Court  death penalty precedent  holding that  counsel  is 
“not required to investigate [a defendant’s]  entire life ” before he can be tried or sentenced.  State 
v. Row , 955 P.2d 1082, 1092 (1998) .  He neither  specifies additional  areas  for investigation nor 
explains  what concrete investigatory steps will bear new fruit at either the guilt phase or the penalty 
phase.  As such, Defendant’s Motion amounts to a request for a  perpetual  continuance  so that his 
counsel can go down every rabbit -hole until Defendant —rather than the Court —deems himself 
ready for trial.  The law requires no such thing.  See Mahaffey v. Page , 151 F.3d 671, 685 (7th Cir. 
1998) vacated in part by  162 F.3d 481 (7th Cir. 1999) (“A reasonable investigation does not 
mandate a scorch -the-earth strategy, a requirement that would fail to consider the limited time and 
resources that defense lawyers have in preparing for a sentencing hearing”) .  The Court should 
deny the Motion  because Defendant’s  team  has had the opportunity to prepare  and has adequately 
addressed the issues he claims need more attention . 
A. Defendant’s Motion Is Untimely Given the Procedural Posture of This Case.  
The Scheduling Order grant ed the parties  ample time for trial preparation , and it also set 
several interim deadlines along th e way, including for penalty phase expert disclosures  and 
mitigation disclosures, which is the primary basis for Defendant’s Motion.  The State also 
understands that the Court set the pre -trial conference more than two months before trial in order STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  7 to give the parties sufficient time to prepare for trial after  discovery closed and pre -trial disclosures 
and motions practice w ere completed.   
If Defendant was having trouble meeting deadlines , finding experts , or pursuing “red 
flags,” (Mot. 29), he should have sought  a discovery extension or trial continuance  long before 
now.  See  Marquez , 772 F.2d at 556 (stating that a court should consider a defendant’s diligence 
and the inconvenience to the court and prosecution when reviewing a motion to continue).  He  did 
not do so.  Instead, Defendant retained over a dozen guilt phase experts, six penalty phase experts, 
a mitigation specialist,  and has identified over 2,100 pages of purported mitigation materials .  And, 
leading up to the pre -trial conference, he exchanged witness lists and exhibit lists with the State  
without stating that he would be mov ing for a continuance .   
While Defendant relies on the “death is different” mantra and argues that “extraordinary 
measures” must be taken to protect his rights  (Mot. 4), he cites no authority for the proposition 
that reasonable  scheduling orders  should not  be enforced  in death penalty cases.  Indeed, Defendant 
recently argued that the State improperly delayed in seeking an extension of time  for its rebuttal 
phase expert disclosures.  (Objection to State’s Motion for Examination of Defendant Pursuant to Idaho Code § 18-207 and for an Extension of Time to Complete Rebuttal Penalty Phase Expert 
Disclosures (filed Apr. 29, 2025) 4 (“The State has not provided the necessary proof of good cause 
to warrant an extension of such a significant deadline so close to the trial date.”).)   The same 
principle should apply to him.  Defendant’s Motion is untimely and weighs in favor of its rejection . 
B. Defendant’s Purported Need to Conduct Additional Investigation Is 
Unsupported and Does Not Establish Prejudice Warranting a Continuance . 
Defendant bases his Motion on a claim of insufficient resources and the need to conduct 
more investigation prior to trial.  But he has not demonstrated that he is being deprived of anything STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  8 that he seeks .  Thus , Defendant’s claims  about the current state of the defense team’s preparations 
are “ matter[s]  of speculation ” and not the type of “ demonstrable reality”  needed to support a 
continuance based on Defendant’s constitutional rights.  United States ex rel. Darcy v. Handy , 351 
U.S. 454, 462 (1956).  
1. Defendant ’s Legal Resources Ha ve Been  More  Than  Adequate.  
Defendant has three trial attorneys  (including a lead attorney who has represented him from 
day one ) two investigators, and the assistance of at least one additional public defense attorney .  
He also has engaged an outside mitigation specialist to assist in obtaining materials for use during 
the penalty phase.  This record reflects that this defense team has been working hard for defendant 
and, as explained below, has met the professional standards for the defense of a death penalty case.    
Yet Defendant still claims  that the Court is “cutting off” his review of discovery.  (Mot. 
29-31.)  This is unfounded.  Defendant’s attorneys have had sufficient time to review discovery  
and  have not established any discovery violations by the State .  They have been able to identify 
over 1,000 exhibits and nearly 200 witnesses for trial.  Indeed, t he Court also recently admonished  
Defendant’s counsel to seek additional resources from the Resource Judge  if they needed more 
assistance to review discovery and prepare for trial.  Defend ant has not claimed that he sought 
more resources and was denied.  Neither the size of his legal  team nor the need to continue to 
review discovery form a valid basis for a continuance.  
2. Defendant ’s Expert Witness Resources Have Been  More  Than  Adequate . 
Defendant has been able to retain a large  retinue of experts, including six experts focused 
on mitigation for the penalty phase.  Five  of these experts are mental health professionals.  B oth a 
psychologist and a forensic psychiatrist have  examined Defendant on multiple occasions, reviewed STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  9 his social and medical history, and diagnosed him with autism, OCD, and ADHD.  Collectively , 
these experts took a deep dive into Defendant’s entire life , including by interviewing his famil y, 
teachers, co -workers, and even a psychologist who evaluated  Defendant as a child .  The  extensive 
investigations by these experts contradict Defendant’s claim that he needs more time to complete 
a “social history investigation.”  (Mot. 27.)  In the cases he cites, counsel was ineffective for failing to explore mental health conditions or for failing to provide mental health experts with sufficient 
background information.  In contrast, here , Defendant’s mental health experts ha ve had access to 
a significant amount of people and materials and have created fulsome  histories through their own 
investigation.   
Defendant’s claim that his team needs to follow up on “red flags” is also unsubstantiated.  
(Mot. 15.)  In their reports, n either his psychologist nor his forensic psychiatrist indicated they 
could not render opinions because of unexplored areas .  In fact, the  forensic psychiatrist concluded 
that Defendant  showed no signs of other serious psychotic disorders , and, at  a recent  hearing, 
Defendant represented that he would not seek to introduce  evidence on this unexplored topic.   
Tellingly, Defendant did not s eek an extension of the penalty phase expert disclosure deadline.  
Defendant’s claim that more expert testimony is needed is speculative  and does not identi fy what 
new information would be uncovered by further investigation.  This is fatal to Defendant’s Motion.  
See Rowe , 2014 WL 4244336 at *2 (affirming denial of a continuance where it “ would not have 
served a useful purpose because counsel sought information based on mere speculation”).  
3. Defendant’s Counsel’s Investigation Into His Life Story Has Been More Than 
Adequate, and His Reliance on the ABA Guidelines Is Misplaced.  
There is no authority to support  Defendant ’s desire for more time to conduct “ a scorch -the-
earth ” “life history” investigation.  See Mahaffey , 151 F.3d at  685.  Courts recognize that all STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  10 cases—including death penalty cases —are constrained  by limited time and resources.  See Row, 
955 P.2d at 1082; Dyer v. Calderon , 122 F.3d 720, 735 (9th Cir. 1997), vacated on other grounds  
151 F.3d 970 (9th Cir. 1998) ( en banc ) (“We have never held that counsel has a duty to uncover 
every aspect of a defendant’s past and to present all evidence that might bolster a defendant’s 
mitigation case.  Rather, trial counsel’s resources are limited and the strategic decision to emphasize c ertain aspects of a defendant’s background at the expense of investigating othe rs is 
both reasonable and wholly acceptable.” ). 
Faced with this authority, Defendant turns to strawman arguments and non-binding  
guidelines  to conjure up alleged prejudice .  First, he cites cases where death penalty sentences 
were  overturned because  lower courts failed to consider mitigation evidence.  (Mot. 7 -8.)  But  
there is no danger of that here .  Starting the trial instead of allowing  Defendant to pursue  a 
mitigation investigation with no end in sight does not amount to denying him the right to present a constitutionally adequate mitigation case.  In any event, the current issue before the Court is a 
request for a continuance, not the admissibility of mitigation evidence or t he performance of 
counsel.  T he Court’s decision remains  a matter of discretion.  See Michaels v. Chappell , No. 
04cv0122–JAH (JLB) , 2014 WL 7047544, at *21 (S.D. Cal. Dec. 12, 2014) (affirming trial court 
in a petition for habeas corpus because the defendant “ fail[ed] to demonstrate that the state court’s 
rejection [of a continuance]  was objectively unreasonable ”); Holm v. Kirkegard , CV 16 -100-M-
DLC- JCL, 2019 WL 5061322, at *2 (D. Mont. Oct. 9, 2019) (finding that “the trial court’s denial 
of a last -minute continuance did not violate [defendant’s] rights”) .  The Court will be well within 
its discretion to bring this case to trial after two years and an already robust defense investigation.   
See Dixon v. Ryan , 932 F.3d 789, 806 (9th Cir. 2019) (affirming the decision to deny a motion for STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  11 a conti nue where the “ trial court cited the overall length of the case . . .  the interests of the victims , 
and the mitigation investigation done by prior counsel ”). 
Second, Defendant relies on the ABA Guidelines for the Appointment and Performance of 
Defense Counsel in Death Penalty Proceedings  to list all the things that his counsel needs  to 
accomplish .  This exercise is meritless as a matter of law and of fact.  As to the law , the Idaho 
Supreme Court has declined the “invitation to adopt these guidelines.”   State v. Porter , 948 P.2d 
127, 137 (1997) ; see also Hall v. State , 253 P.3d 716, 727 (2011)  (repudiat ing the guidelines  in 
the context of post -conviction discovery and rejecting  a claim that “heightened procedural 
safeguards should be employed in discovery in capital cases” ); Aeschliman v. State , 973 P.2d 749, 
757 (Idaho Ct. App. 1999) (recognizing that failing to comply with ABA Guidelines “is not 
ineffective assistance of counsel per se”).   For its part, the United States Supreme Court has ruled 
that ABA guidelines are just t hat—“only guides.”  Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 688 
(1984) ; see also Cullen v. Pinholster , 563 U.S. 170, 195 (2011) ( “Beyond the general requirement 
of reasonableness, specific guidelines are not appropriate.”).  
As a factual matter , even if the Court looks to the ABA Guidelines, the record re veals  that 
Defendant’s counsel has  complied with them .  Table 1 and Table 2 attached to this brief 
cross- reference the list of tasks Defendant sets forth  from the ABA Guidelines with the actual 
record in this case.3  (Mot.  13-14).  The results show that an appellate court will be exceedingly 
 
3  The State does not address point -by-point the list of tasks cited from the Declaration of Elizabeth 
Vartkessian, Ph.D., in United States v. Chukwudi Ofomata.  (Mot. 17 -20.)  Defendant’s reliance on this 
mitigation specialist from an unrelated  case reflects the unending nature of the analysis Defendant is 
seeking to impose on the Court.   Areas of inquiry identified by a non -judge  in a far-flung case should 
carry no weight.  If they did, Defendant could delay this trial indefinitely by continuously finding 
previously unidentified topics that some one somewhere says his counsel should investigate.  STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  12 hard- pressed to rely on the ABA Guidelines (or any other basis) to find that Defendant has suffered 
prejudice if trial proceeds as scheduled .  It also shows that extending Defendant’s mitigation 
investigation will not serve “ a useful purpose ” because, at this point, any new information counsel 
hopes to find “is  based on mere speculation .”  Rowe , 2014 WL 4244336 at *2.  
4. Defendant’s Ex Parte  Filing Should Not Cause the Court to Grant His Motion.  
Defendant filed ex parte an additional document that purports to outline what new evidence 
he might seek and what strategies or tactics he might use to obtain such evidence.  Initially, the 
Court expressed skepticism that Defendant’s motion was properly filed ex parte  and ordered 
Defendant to provide a redacted copy of this filing to the State for it to address in this response.  
Defendant  then objected to that order, and the State now understands that the Court has decided 
not to require disclosure of the ex parte filing.  While the State does not concede that Defendant 
has valid  grounds for his  objection, it will not address the  objection given the Court’s decision.  
The State , however, does request  that if the Court has identified a basis in  the ex parte filing to 
grant Defendant’s Motion, that the Court allow  the State to respond to that particular issue.   
Regardless of the ex parte filing, the Court should deny Defendant’s  Motion because of 
the resources he has at his disposal  and the significant work already done to support his mitigation 
case.  
II. The Idaho Constitution’s Victims’ Rights Amendment Is Another Basis to Deny 
Defendant’s Motion.  
 
While Defendant’s reasons for a continuance are unpersuasive, there is another reason to 
deny his Motion.  The victims in this case, including the immediate family members of the 
homicide victims, have a right under the Idaho Constitution (and Idaho Code) to the “timely disposition” of this case.  Idaho Const., Art. I § 22; I.C. § 19- 5306(1)(c), (3).  Given that it has STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  13 been  nearly two and half years  since Defendant’s arrest, the victims’ rights and their desire for 
justice weigh in favor proceeding to trial as scheduled.  
While  the term “timely disposition”  is not defined, it must mean that, at some point, a trial 
court can decide that the administration of justice outweighs a defendant’s desire to continue 
preparing his defense.  That is one of the purposes of the Idaho Victims’ Rights Amendment and is consistent with Idaho c ases requiring a defendant to show actual prejudice in order to 
successfully challenge a decision to deny a motion to continue.  See Cagle , 891 P.2d at  1057 ; 
Tapia, 899 P.2d at  965. 
In his Motion, Defendant cites many cases where counsel failed to adequately prepare for 
trial or sentencing, but he cites no case where  a court found that over two years was an inadequate 
amount of time to prepare .  Nor could he.  He concedes that t he Sixth Amendment only means that  
a defendant is entitled to “a reasonable  period of time before trial during which counsel might 
prepare the defense.”  (Mot. 5 (quoting United States v. Ash, 413 U.S. 300, 340- 41 (1973)  
(Brennan, J. dissenting) (emphasis added) .)  While he appears to want unlimited time, Defendant 
has already had a reasonable amount of time to prepare, as demonstrated by the substantial quantity of evidence his attorneys have amassed.  Against this backdrop, the Court can properly rely on the victims’ constitutional rights  as a basis to deny his Motion.  
III. Despite Intense Publicity, the Court Should Exercise Its Discretion to Deny 
Defendant’s Motion and Proceed to Trial  Using Its Carefully Planned Jury Selection 
Process.  
There is no doubt that the publicity surrounding this case —including, but not limited to, a 
recent “Dateline” TV show  containing non- public evidence —pose s challenges for the Court and 
both parties.  T he State reaffirms its commitment to comply with the Court’s Non -Dissemination STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  14 Order, to do everything in its power to prevent leaks , and to assist in determining  which person (or 
persons) provided non- public information to Dateline.  However, Defendant’s reliance on the 
Dateline episode to support his Motion is misplaced for several reasons.  
First, the question of whether Defendant can receive a fair trial is not answered by the 
amount of and the nature of pretrial publicity .  Rather, it depends on whether a fair and impartial 
jury can be seated.   As the United States Supreme Court has said:   
To hold that the mere existence of any preconceived notion as to the 
guilt or innocence of an accused, without more, is sufficient to rebut the presumption of a prospective juror ’s impartiality would be to 
establish an impossible standard.  It is sufficient if the juror can lay 
aside his impression or opinion and render a verdict based on the evidence presented in court.   
Irvin v. Dowd, 366 U.S. 717, 723 (1961) .  Accordingly, the Idaho Supreme Court has  long 
recognized that trial courts can successfully select an “impartial jury” despite “widespread 
publicity.”  State v. Windsor , 716 P.2d 1182, 1188 (Idaho 1985) .  In State v. Fetterly, 710 P.2d 
1202 (Idaho 1985), a death penalty case, the Idaho Supreme Court disagreed with the defendant’s 
claim that “ extensive publicity prior to trial deprived him of the opportunity to be tried before an 
impartial jury .”  Id. at 1205.  Because “each juror was extensively questioned to determine the 
degree of their exposure to the pretrial publicity [,]” defendant’s rights were preserved.   Id.  When 
the defendant later sought federal habeas corpus  relief, the Ninth Circuit examined the voir dire  
process and found no pre judice even though, on the day of jury selection, the case was covered on 
the front page of the local newspaper , as well as on TV and the radio.
4  See Fetterly v. Paskett , 163 
 
4  The Ninth Circuit found it relevant that the publicity was  not unexpected and focused on the “facts of 
the case, ” not inflammatory materials.  
 STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  15 F.3d 1144, 1147 ( 9th Cir. 1998) . 
Here, the Court’s carefully crafted jury selection proce ss has every chance to  produce  an 
impartial jury.  Because of the sensitive nature of the Court’s voir dire procedures, the State will 
not address the mechanics of jury selection in this public filing.  But  suffice it to say, if an 
individual ha s been so impacted by the Dateline episode ( or any other publicity ) that they cannot 
be impartial, they will not be se ated as a juror.  Indeed , this case is not the  Ada County judiciary ’s 
first experience with  a highly publicized trial in recent years.  Like the court in the Vallow -Daybell  
trial, this Court is well- equipped to select a jury, to handle ongoing media coverage, and to conduct 
a fair trial in the Ada County courthouse.5   
Second, the Idaho Supreme Court has rejected Defendant’s theory that a continuance is 
necessary to allow media coverage to “dissi pate.”   See Fetterly, 710 P.2d at 1206  (“Fetterly argues 
that the trial judge should have granted a continuance to allow the harmful press coverage to 
dissipate.  However, as stated above, there is every indication that an impartial jury was empaneled 
and that Fetterly received a fair trial. ”).  As the Court correctly noted at the pretrial conference, 
delaying th is trial will only allow more opportunities for pretrial publicity.  T here is no reason to 
think that  media coverage in this case will “dissipate.”   So, proceeding to trial as scheduled may 
actually  avoid any negative consequences from future publicity.   
Defendant’s “dissipation” cases occurred in the 1960s and involved communities where it 
was presumed or demonstrated that residents had already formed opinions about the case based on 
 
5  Defendant’s citation to Sheppard v. Maxwell , 384 U.S. 333 (1966), is inapposite.  In that case, the court 
did nothing to control the “carnival atmosphere” that prevailed at trial.  Id.  at 358.  Unlike in this case, 
in Sheppard , the judge  did not move the venue for the trial, did not address  extrajudicial statements by 
the parties, and did not regulate how the media operated in the  courtroom.   STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  16 
local media  reports .  See Beck v. Washington, 369 U.S. 541, 557 (1962) (citing Irvin  “where 
sensational publicity adverse to the accused permeated the small town in which he w as tried, the 
voir dire examination indicated that 90% of 370 prospective jurors and two -thirds of those seated 
on the jury had an opinion as to guilt ”). 
Here,  venue has already been moved and it the Court  will use a much larger pool of 
potential jurors  than in Defendant’s cited cases.  T his case is also proceeding in a highly- fractured 
media landscape that bears little resemblance to  what  prevailed  in the 1960s .6  What  happened in 
Defendant’s cited cases has no bearing on whether the Court can select the sufficient number of 
impartial jurors  in this case.  The Court should deny Defendant’s Motion because he has not shown 
that the publicity surrounding this case will prevent a fair trial . 
CONCLUSION 
 For the foregoing reasons, the Court should deny the Defendant’s Motion to Continue.  
DATED this 5th day of June . 
 
  
WILLIAM W. THOMPSON, JR.  
Latah County P rosecuting  Attorney  
ASHLEY JENNINGS  
Senior D eputy Prosecuting Attorney  
JOSHUA D. HURWIT  
Special Deputy Prosecuting Attorney  
  
 
6  In this light, it is relevant to consider how the specific jury pool at issue —which consists of citizens 
from Ada County—may (or may not) be impacted by media coverage.  L ocal media is likely to continue 
to consistently report on this case regardless of the trial schedule.  The November anniversary of the 
murders, for example, generates  stories.  See “Timeline: Two years after the University of Idaho 
murders, here’s where things stand ,” Katie Kloppenburg , Boise State Public Radio News, November 
13, 2024 (available at https://www.boisestatepublicradio.org/law -justice/2023 -11-13/university -idaho-
kohberger -moscow-ada-county, last visited May 22, 2025).  Thus, there is no basis to think that 
“dissipation” is likely.  STATE’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  17 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
 
I hereby certify that true and correct copies of the STATE’S OPPOSITION TO THE 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE  were served on the following in the manner indicated 
below:  
Anne  Taylor  
Attorney at Law  
PO Box 2347  
Coeur d’Alene, ID 83816  
info@annetaylorlaw.com   
 ☐ Mailed  
☒ E-filed & Served / E -mailed  
☐ Faxed  
☐ Hand Delivered  
 
 Dated this 5th  day of June,  2025. 
 
 
   
  Table 1 
Defendant’s Cited Area of Inquiry 
Per the ABA Guidelines  State’s Response1 
Medical history  Contained in Defendant’s e xhibits (D999- D1001, 
D1004- D1014, D1016- D1019)  and elsewhere in 
Defendant’s discovery (e.g., 2687- 2925, 2988- 3010, 
3039- 3041) . 
Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health 
professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members can testify about this topic . 
Any missing medical records have been available to Defendant and can be obtained prior to penalty phase.  
Complete prenatal, pediatric and 
adult health information  Contained in Defendant’s e xhibits (D999- D1001, 
D1004- D1014, D1016- D1019)  and elsewhere in 
Defendant’s discovery (e.g., 2687- 2925, 2988- 3010, 
3039- 3041).  
Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members can testify about this topic . 
Any missing medical records have been available to Defendant and can be obtained prior to penalty phase.  
Exposure to harmful substances in 
utero and in the environment  No evidence this is relevant .   
Substance abuse history  Contained in Defendant’s exhibits  (D1005) .  
Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members can testify about this topic . 
Any missing medical records have been available to Defendant and can be obtained prior to penalty phase.  
Mental health history  Contained in Defendant’s exhibits  (D1004, D1005, 
D1007) .  
 
1  The State is not conceding that all the materials listed herein are relevant , admissible, or are actually 
mitigating.  The purpose of this Table is simply to show that Defendant has obtained the types of 
materials he claims that he needs for his mitigation case.  Therefore, a continuance is not warranted.  Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health 
professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members and other identified witnesses, 
including former teacher (A.P.) and evaluating 
psychologist  (E.N -C.) can testify about this topic . 
History of maltreatment and neglect  No evidence that this is relevant.    
Trauma history  Records related to childhood car accident contained in Defendant’s exhibits ( D1023)  and elsewhere in 
Defendant’s discovery (2687- 2925, 3039- 41). 
Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members can testify about this topic . 
Educational history  Contained in Defendant’s e xhibits (D972, D976, 
D991-D998, D1024- D1026) and contained elsewhere 
in Defendant’s discovery ( 8-10, 181- 185, 190- 94, 198-
201, 3093- 3095) . 
Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members and other identified witnesses, including former teacher s (M.B., J.C., C.H., D.M., 
A.P., K.R., D.W.) and former classmates (M.D., A.H -
M., A.M., C.M., E.P.) , can testify about this topic . 
Any missing educational records have been available to Defendant and can be obtained prior to penalty phase.  
Employment and training history  Defendant has limited employment history.   
Family members and other identified witnesses , 
including professor he worked for (J.S.) and former co-worker s (e.g., Al.A.) , can testify about this topic . 
Any missing records have been available to Defendant and can be obtained prior to penalty phase.  
Military experience  Not applicable  
Multi-generational family history, 
genetic disorders and vulnerabilities, as well as multi -generational patterns 
of behavior  Contained in Defendant’s e xhibits (D982- D990, 
D1015, D1027- D1034, D1039- D1040) and contained 
elsewhere in Defendant’s discovery ( e.g., 2611- 2683, 
2926- 2963, 3090- 3092, 3097- 3114, 11087- 12725). Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health 
professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members can testify about this topic.  
Prior adult and juvenile correctional 
experience  Not applicable  
Religious, gender, sexual orientation, 
ethnic, racial, cultural and 
community influences  Family members and other identified witnesses , 
including fellow congregants  (E.M., J.R.) , 
acquaintances (A.F.), friends (B.A., D.F.), and neighbors ( An.A., A u.A., F.A, G.N. ), can testify about 
this topic . 
At least some religious  history contained in discovery 
(3088).  
Socio- economic, historical, and 
political factors  Contained in Defendant’s exhibits  (D975, D1020-
D1021) . 
Addressed in multiple expert reports of mental health professionals  (D838- D839). 
Family members and other identified witnesses , 
including fellow  congregants  (E.M., J.R.), 
acquaintances (A.F.), friends (B.A., D.F.), and neighbors (A.A., A.A., F.A, G.N.), can testify about 
this topic . 
 
  Table 2 
Witnesses Defendant Wants 
Available  Per the ABA Guidelines  State’s Response 
The client’s family, extending three 
generations back, and those familiar with the client. All living family members are subject to the subpoena  
power . 
Many have spoken to Defendant’s expert witnesses and are on Defendant’s witness list ( C.E., A.K., 
Me.K., Ma.K., Mi.K., R.K., S.K.) .  
The client’s friends, teachers, classmates, co -workers, employers, 
and those who served in the military with the client, as well as others who are familiar with the client’s early and current development and functioning, medical history, environmental hist ory, mental health 
history, educational history, employment and training history, military experience and religious, racial, and cultural experiences and influences upon the client or the client’s family  Many individuals falling in these categories have spoken to Defendant’s expert witnesses and are on Defendant’s witness list (e.g., Al.A., B.A., M.B., A.D., 
C.H., A.H- M., A.M., C.M., D.M., E.M., E.P., J.R, 
K.R., J.S., D.W.). 
 
Social service and treatment 
providers to the client and the client’s family members, including doctors, nurses, other medical staff, social workers, and housing or welfare  
officials  At least one psychologist who evaluated Defendant as a child has spoken to Defendant’s expert witnesses and is on Defendant’s witness list ( E.N-C.). 
Defendant’s medical history also reveals other providers who can be called as witnesses, though it appears Defendant has chosen not to do so. 
Witnesses familiar with the client’s prior juvenile and criminal justice and correctional experiences  Not applicable . 
Family members can testify about Defendant’s behavior, generally.  
Former and current neighbors of the client and the client’s family, 
community members, and others 
familiar with the neighborhoods in which the client lived, including the type of housing, the economic status 
of the community, the availability of Defendant’s witness list contains neighbors ( e.g., 
AN.A., Au.A., F.A., G.N.).     
Family members are best positioned to testify about 
these topics.  employment and the prevalence of 
violence  
Witnesses who can testify about the 
applicable alternative to a death sentence and/or the conditions under which the alternative sentence would 
be served  Defendant has retained and disclosed an expert  
witness, J.A., to testify about this topic.  
Witnesses who can testify about the adverse impact of the client’s execution on the client’s family and loved ones.  Family members are best positioned to testify about 
this topic.  
 