 
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 1 Wendy J. Olson, Bar No. 7634 
wendy.olson@stoel.com 
Cory M. Carone, Bar No. 11422 
cory.carone@stoel.com 
STOEL RIVES LLP 
101 S. Capitol Boulevard, Suite 1900 
Boise, ID  83702 
Telephone:  208.389.9000 
Facsimile:  208.389.9040 
Attorneys for Intervenors 
  
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SE COND JUDICIAL DI STRICT OF THE 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH 
STATE OF IDAHO, 
Plaintiff, 
v. 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER, 
Defendant. Case No. CR29-22-2805 
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the 
Amended Nondissemination Order 
 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; RADIO 
TELEVISION DIGITAL NEWS 
ASSOCIATION; SINCLAIR MEDIA OF 
BOISE, LLC/KBOI-TV (BOISE); STATES 
NEWSROOM DBA IDAHO CAPITAL SUN; 
TEGNA INC./KREM (SPOKANE), KTVB 
(BOISE) AND KING (SEATTLE); 
EASTIDAHONEWS.COM; THE LEWISTON 
TRIBUNE; WASHINGTON STATE 
ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS; 
IDAHO PRESS CLUB; IDAHO EDUCATION 
NEWS; KXLY-TV/4 NEWS NOW AND 
KAPP/KVEW-TV—MORGAN MURPHY 
MEDIA KXLY-TV/4 NEWS NOW; SCRIPPS 
MEDIA, INC., DBA KIVI-TV, A DELAWARE  Electronically Filed
6/8/2023 2:30 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy Clerk 
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 2 CORPORATION; THE SPOKESMAN-
REVIEW/COWLES COMPANY; THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY; LAWNEWZ, INC.; ABC, INC.; WP COMPANY LLC, DBA THE WASHINGTON POST; SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS; THE MCCLATCHY COMPANY, LLC; and THE SEATTLE TIMES,  
Intervenors. 
 
The Amended Nondissemination Order dated January 18, 2023 (“Gag Order”) prohibits 
any extrajudicial statement, written or oral, concerning this case. That prohibition is not justified by a concern for prejudicial statements, as a prohi bition on any statement in cludes those statements 
that are exculpatory, neutral, or irrelevant to  Mr. Kohberger. That pr ohibition also makes no 
attempt at any tailoring,  let alone narrow tailoring. The State and Mr. Kohberger appear to be 
concerned with the amount of publicity around this  case. But publicity alone  is not prejudicial. 
And the Gag Order does nothing to  limit publicity. The Gag Order ha s been around in its current 
and prior form for nearly fi ve months. Mr. Kohberger was arrested on December 30, 2022, the 
initial gag order was entered January 3, 2023, and Mr . Kohberger’s initial a ppearance in Idaho was 
January 5, 2023. Given that timeline, the evidence that Mr. Kohberger now tries to submit shows, if anything, that the Gag Order ha s done nothing to curb the public’s  legitimate inte rest in this 
case. But the Gag Order has prevented responsibl e individuals fro m sharing quality  information, 
creating a vacuum filled by ramp ant speculation that can only hurt Mr. Kohberger or stoke 
conspiracies about the criminal justice system. The Gag Order does not survive a proper balancing 
of the Sixth Amendment and the First Amendment,  thus the Court should vacate the Gag Order. 
A. The Court should not consider the new evidence submitted by Mr. Kohberger. 
In their opposition briefs, the State and Mr. Kohberger acknowledge that they submitted  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 3 no evidence to the Court when they requested a gag order. Mr. Kohberger tries to remedy that 
shortcoming by submitting a highly selective sampling of news coverage that is not representative 
of Intervenors’ coverage and two expert re ports with strong indica tions of unreliability. 
Intervenors’ Motion to Vacate addresses the Court’ s decision to enter the Gag Order based on the 
record before it when the order was issued. This  is not Mr. Kohberger’s motion, and he should not 
be allowed to upend the record n early five months after the Gag Order was entered, over a month 
after Intervenors f iled their motion, and a mere three days before the hearing. He had plenty of 
time to submit evidence previously, as he has cl early been working with his putative experts for 
some time. He chose not to do so. 
Mr. Kohberger’s last-minute s ubmission of putative expert analysis is particularly 
inappropriate, as there are disclosure rules for su ch evidence designed to provide the parties and 
the Court with the opportunity to ve t whether the analysis is suffici ently reliable to consider. Idaho 
R. Civ. P. 26(b)(4)(A); Idaho R. Crim. P. 16(b)(7) & (c)(4). Given the unique posture of this case—
by direction of the Idaho Supreme Court, Interve nors seek to intervene for the limited purpose of 
challenging the Gag Order—Intervenors are not truly parties to this case a nd thus lack discovery 
tools needed to fully invoke Civil Rule 26’s an d Criminal Rule 16’s protections. But nonetheless, 
those rules exist so that there is sufficient time and data available to eval uate a putative expert’s 
experience and methodology—perhaps w ith the assistance of a rebuttal expert if the subject matter 
is sufficiently complicated or t echnical—with the ultimate goal of making sure that only reliable 
expert testimony makes its way into the record and is properly relied on or rejected by the Court 
in reaching a decision.  
Mr. Kohberger should not be allowed to sidestep  those safeguards, particularly when even 
with short notice his experts’ analyses have strong indicators of un reliability. Respectfully,  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 4 Ms. Saucier does not appear qualified. She work s in what appears to be largely a business 
development or sales position. Nor does her analys is appear reliable, as she does not provide the 
raw underlying data or me thodology for her many gra phics and analysis.  
For her part, Dr. El-Alayli, while seemingly well educated in psychology, appears to be 
opining well outside her area of expe rtise. Her report cites some articles that based on their titles 
appear to relate to potential jury bias (indicat ing experts exist on that topic), but a preliminary 
review of Dr. El-Alayli’s publications suggest sh e does not work on or study that topic. None of 
her articles appear to relate to crim inal trials or jury bias, and her fi ve most recent articles are titled:  
• “Dancing Backwards in High Heels: Female Professors Experience More Work 
Demands and Special Favor Requests, Pa rticularly from Academically Entitled 
Students”; 
• “Impressions of Businesses with Language Errors in Print Advertising: Do Spelling 
and Grammar Influence the Inc lination to use a Business?”; 
• “Grandiose Narcissists’ Pub lic versus Private Attribu tions for a Collaborative 
Success”; 
• “Who has the better personality, me or my partner? Self-E nhancement Bias in 
Relationships and its Potential Consequences”; and  
• “Getting Aesthetic Chills from Music:  The Connection between Openness to 
Experience and Frisson.”  
Mr. Kohberger’s Objection to Media’s Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order 
(“Mr. Kohberger’s Ob jection”), Ex. E. 
At bottom, Mr. Kohberger should not be allowe d to submit untimely ev idence, particularly 
expert evidence without all the ty pical disclosures and with str ong indications of unreliability.  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 5 B. Mr. Kohberger’s evidence, if anythi ng, favors vacating the Gag Order. 
Even if the Court is inclined  to consider Mr. Kohberger’s evidence, it favor s vacating the 
Gag Order. As they have said before, Interven ors do not dispute that there has been, and will 
continue to be, large amounts of  public interest and publicity surrounding Mr. Kohberger’s case. 
Nor do Intervenors dispute that as a general propositi on, certain speech, at  times, can risk 
prejudicing a jury such that Sixth Amendment interests outwei gh First Amendment interests.  
But Mr. Kohberger’s evidence la rgely details coverage dated after the Gag Order, which 
makes sense given that a gag order has been in pla ce since virtually the ince ption of this case. The 
evidence thus shows not what the Gag Order has accomplished, but what the Gag Order has failed 
to do. The Gag Order, which in its current and prior form have been in place since th ree days after 
Mr. Kohberger was arrested, has no t reduced the amount of  public interest in this case. For that 
reason it also has not reduced the am ount of publicity su rrounding the case.  
What the Gag Order has done is reduce the amount of quality info rmation provided by 
responsible individuals in a reasonable and dispas sionate manner. The absence of that information 
does not curb the public’s interest; it creates a va cuum for bloggers, social media users, internet 
sleuths, and less ethical media outlets to publish rampant speculation that the public will consume 
when there is no better information availabl e. That speculation, which at times can be 
inflammatory, can potentially saturate the internet, which may make it more difficult to empanel 
an unbiased jury. That is, the Gag Order—whic h prohibits any comments concerning the case, 
including those comments that could he lp Mr. Kohberger—actually works against 
Mr. Kohberger’s Sixth Amendment interests. And in the proce ss, the Gag Order reduces the 
public’s ability to evaluate how the criminal ju stice system functions in the areas surrounding 
Moscow, and how public institutions  like local police departments,  prosecutors’ offices, and public 
defenders’ offices are performing—a ll information of great interest  to the public when deciding  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 6 issues like whether their communi ties are safe, which personnel s hould fill elected roles, and 
whether budgets should be increased or decreased.  
C. The Gag Order is vague, overbroad, unduly restrictive, and not narrowly drawn.   
The Idaho Supreme Court just recently reminded the litigants in this matter  that it “has long 
respected the media’s role in our constitutional re public” and that “‘[t]he underlying rationale of 
the First Amendment protection of freedom of the pr ess is clear . . . the public must know the truth 
in order to make value judgments [a nd] [t]he only reliable source of th at truth is a ‘press’ . . . which 
is free to publish that truth without government  censorship. We cannot accep t the premise that the 
public’s right to know the truth is somehow enhanced by prohib iting the disclosure  of truth in the 
courts of the public.” In re Petition for Writ of Ma ndamus or Writ of Prohibition , No. 50482, 2023 
WL 3050829, at *10 (Idaho Apr. 24, 2023) (citation om itted). The rhetoric in Mr. Kohberger’s 
objection—which ignores the distin ction between media outlets at large and responsible national 
and local members of Intervenors’ coalition like the Idaho Press Club , the Washington State 
Association of Broadcasters, the Idaho States man, the Associated Press, and the New York 
Times—unfortunately does not share the level of re spect, let alone civilit y, expressed by the Idaho 
Supreme Court. 
But behind Mr. Kohberger’s blus ter lie some striking admissions. First, he says “the Idaho 
Supreme Court has held that cour ts have the inherent power to sanction attorney  misconduct. No 
initial order reminding parties of what the rules ar e is necessary for this Court to punish misconduct 
. . . . Even without the Order, the magistrate woul d have been able to sanction parties for violating 
those rules.” Mr. Kohberger’s Obje ction at pp. 7–8. That is precisely Interve nors’ point. The Idaho 
Rules of Professional Conduct already regulate the topics of speech that “will have a substantial 
likelihood of materially prejudicing an adjudicative  proceeding in the matter.” I.R.P.C. 3.6(a). And 
as Mr. Kohberger says, either this Court, the Idah o State Bar, or both can discipline violations of  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 7 that rule. Vacating the Gag Order will not change th at fact. So there must be a factual and legal 
justification for a gag order that prohibits spe ech from more people and on more topics, including 
those topics that do not pose a substantial likelihood of mate rially prejudicing these proceedings. 
Mr. Kohberger’s next admission is that the requ ired factual presentati on did not occur, as 
he says “[t]his Court now”—five months later—“has the opport unity to make a factual record.” 
Mr. Kohberger’s Objection at p. 12 (emphasis adde d). Mr. Kohberger’s proposed factual record is 
untimely, and it is inappropria te and unpersuasive for the reasons already provided. 
And finally there is Mr. Kohbe rger’s admission that the Idah o Supreme Court “found that 
a vague, overbroad, unduly restrictive or not narrowly drawn nondissemination order would be 
unconstitutional.” Mr. Kohberger’s Objection at p. 4. The State interprets the Idaho Supreme 
Court’s decision the same way. Th e State’s Response to Associated  Press’ Motion to Intervene 
and Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondisseminati on Order (“State’s Opposition”) at p. 1 (“[I]t 
is now this Court’s prerogative to determine . . . whether the Order is vague, overbroad, unduly 
restrictive, or not narrowly draw n.”). That, again, is precisely In tervenors’ point. Mr. Kohberger’s 
argument that a gag order that  “possibly appl[ies] to a br oad swath of the population,” 
Mr. Kohberger’s Objection at p. 4, and that prohibits any comments concerning this  case, is not 
vague, overbroad, unduly restrictive or not narrowly drawn does not pass muster.  
As Intervenors have said (a nd as Mr. Kohberger ignored): Sheppard , Nebraska Press , and 
Gentile “acknowledge the propriety of regulating some speech from lawyers and trials participants, 
[but] they also explain the findi ngs of prejudice and the narrow ta iloring that are required before 
prohibiting speech.” Intervenors’  Memorandum in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended 
Nondissemination Order (“Opening Mem.”) at p. 9. Honest legal analysis requires not cherry 
picking quotes but putting those quot es in the context of the issues presented to the Court, the  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 8 factual record before the Cour t, the Court’s legal reasoning, and ultimately the principles 
underlying that reasoning. Interv enors did just that with Sheppard , Nebraska Press , and Gentile in 
their opening brief. Opening Mem. at pp. 9–14. To be sure, those cases suggest carefully crafted 
gag orders can be permissible in  certain situations. And those cas es did not decide whether a gag 
order restricting speech only by sources of inform ation is constitutional (which, if anything, means 
any supportive views of such gag orders are non binding dicta). But when applying the facts and 
the law to the issues that were presented in those case s, the Supreme Court announced 
constitutional principles that a pply more broadly, just as Interve nors argued in their opening brief. 
Boiled down, the key principles are that a prohibiti on on speech must be (1) justified by a risk of 
material prejudice, and (2) narrowly tailored to limit only the speech that is actually prejudicial 
and cannot be prevented or remedi ed through other means. Those pr inciples are consistent with 
prior restraint jurisprudence. They are also consis tent with the broader no tion that when balancing 
the First Amendment and the Sixth Amendment, th e First Amendment yields  if, and only if, the 
speech at issue would violate the crimin al defendant’s Sixth Amendment rights. 
Application of Dow Jones & Co., Inc. , 842 F.2d 603 (2d Cir. 1988)  and Radio and 
Television News Association of Southern California v. U.S. District Court for the Central District 
of California , 781 F.2d 1443 (9th Cir. 1986) are wrongly decided because they ignore those 
principles by watering down the competing Firs t Amendment interests and sidestepping prior 
restraint jurisprudence on a techni cality. In practice, a gag order th at names only a third party that 
could provide information to the media is no di fferent than a gag orde r that names the media 
because the media does not create news, it reports news provided by third parties. CBS Inc. v. 
Young may be a civil case, but that does not mean it inaccurately described how news coverage 
works when it recognized that “[a]lthough the news media are not directly enjoined from  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 9 discussing the case, it is apparent that signi ficant and meaningful sources of information 
concerning the case are effectively removed from th em and their representatives. To that extent 
their protected right to obtain information concerning the tria l is curtailed and impaired.” 522 F.2d 
234, 239 (6th Cir. 1975). Nor is People v. Sledge ’s similar explanation any less convincing: 
“Although the gag order does not directly prohibit th e media from discussing the case, it prohibits 
the most meaningful sources of information from discussing the cas e with the media. Therefore, 
the right of the [media] to obtain information from all pot ential trial participants is impaired.” 312 
Mich. App. 516, 530, 879 N.W.2d 884, 893 (2015). 
At bottom, a prohibition on any statement c oncerning a case is by definition overbroad, 
unduly restrictive, and not narrowl y drawn—the prohibition cannot be  any broader. Nor, as the 
evidence Mr. Kohberger seeks to introduce illustra tes, does such a broad prohibition limit publicity 
generally. It simply ensures that the publicity comes from sources that are less reliable. The Gag Order here is also vague in w ho it covers, as descri bed by the Idaho Suprem e Court and explained 
in Intervenors’ opening brief.  
CONCLUSION 
 For these reasons and the reasons pr ovided in their ope ning memorandum and 
supplemental memorandum, Inte rvenors request that the C ourt vacate the Gag Order. 
DATED:  June 8, 2023. 
 STOEL RIVES 
LLP 
 
 
 
/s/ Wendy J. Olson     
Wendy J. Olson 
Cory M. Carone 
Attorneys for Intervenors 
 
  
Reply in Support of Motion to Vacate the Amended Nondissemination Order - 10 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on the 8th day of June 2023, I served a true and co rrect copy of 
the within and foregoing upon the following name d parties by the method indicated below, and 
addressed to the following:  
Latah County Prosecutor’s Office William W. Thompson, Jr. Prosecuting Attorney Latah County Courthouse P.O. Box 8068 Moscow, ID  83843  ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email   X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:   paservice@latahcounty.id.gov   
Anne Taylor Attorney at Law P.O. Box 9000 Coeur d’Alene, ID  83816  ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at ataylor@kcgov.us   X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:             pdfax@kcgov.us   
Jeff Nye Ingrid Batey Deputy Attorney General P.O. Box 83720 Boise, ID  83720 ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov       ingrid.batey@ag.idaho.gov         Via iCour t efile & serve at:  
  
Shanon Gray 2175 N. Mountain View Road Moscow, ID  83843     ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email   X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:   shanon@graylaw.org 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law P.O. Box 1003 Payette, ID  83661 ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at emassoth@kmrs.net   X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:   emassoth
@kmrs.net 
          /s/ Wendy J. Olson    
      Wendy J. Olson 