   
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  1 
 LATAH COUNTY PROSECUTOR’S OFFICE    
WILLIAM W. THOMPSON, JR., ISB 2613  
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY  
INGRID BATEY , ISB 10022  
SPECIAL ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL   
Latah County Courthouse  
P.O. Box 8068  
Moscow, ID 83843  
Phone: (208) 883-2246  
paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
  
  
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE   
  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
  
Case No. CR29-22-2805 
 
STATE ’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S 
MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  
  
COMES NOW the State of Idaho, by and through the Latah County Prosecuting Attorney, 
and objects to Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue. 
INTRODUCTION 
Defendant has filed a motion to change venue, requesting that the trial in this matter be 
moved from  Latah County—where the offenses took place —to Ada County, some 300 miles away . 
To support his motion, he  conducted a survey of prospective jurors  in Latah County, Ada County, 
Canyon County, and Bannock County . But far from demonstrating that a Latah County jury pool 
has been  uniquely subjected to an “utterly corrupted”  environment, as Defendant argues in his   
STATE OF IDAHO,   
                        Plaintiff,   
  
V.  
  
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER   
                         Defendant.   
  Electronically Filed
8/12/2024 3:30 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy Clerk   
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  2 
 brief, the data show that pervasive and wide -ranging coverage  of this case throughout  the entire 
State of  Idaho has led to high case recognition among survey respondents  across all four surveyed 
counties . The Court should decline Defendant’s invitation to parse and split hairs over a n 
incomplete dataset to reverse- engineer a transfer to Ada County , which according to Defendant’s 
own expert s, has received the second- highest amount of media coverage  in the state  and where a 
statistically greater number  (albeit slight)  of the survey respondents familiar with the case  believe 
Defendant is guilty.  See Def. Ex. B, p. 4-5; Def. Ex. C .1 The Court should deny Defendant’s motion 
and instead, focus on crafting remedial measures to ensure that a fair and impartial jury can be 
seated in Latah County.  
ARGUMENT  
 Although the government  generally  must prosecute an offense in the county where it 
occurred, a court may change venue in two limited circumstances . I.C.R . 19; I.C.R.. 21; I.C. § 19-
1801. First, a Court must change  venue to another county “if the court is satisfied that a fair and 
impartial trial cannot be had in the county where the case is pending.” I .C.R. 21(a) ; see also the 
similar language in I.C. 19- 1801.  
Second, a Court may—but is not required to—change venue for the convenience of the 
parties and in the interest of justice. I .C.R. 21(b).  In this case, Defendant has asked the Court to 
 
1 The Truescope Media report does not show  the entire picture, however. Def. Ex. C. In the “Definitions” 
section of the Truescope  report, it is explained that the  report does not take into account  data from 
YouTube , private Facebook groups, podcasts, streaming services (such as Netflix, HBO, Paramount +, or 
Hulu). Id. In fact, the report does not take into account  “data that is not location -specific” at all.  Id. Given 
the ubiquity of blogs, podcasts, documentaries, and other internet or streaming media , it is difficult to 
gauge how including that data may have changed the Truescope report. Additionally, as the Court is 
aware, this type of media (i.e., video bloggers on YouTube , true crime podcasts,  true crime 
“documentaries,” and Tik Tok videos) is often the most inflammatory and prejudicial because it  lacks  the 
professional standards and safeguards of traditional media outlets  (newspapers and television news) .    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  3 
 change venue on both bases. For the following reasons, the Defendant has failed to show that either 
of these circumstances applies.   
I. Defendant has failed to establish that a fair and impartial trial cannot be held in 
Latah County . 
   
 Defendant has argued that due to per vasive publicity in this case , a change of venue is 
appropriate. Defendant further claims that the atmosphere in Latah County has been “utterly 
corrupted” b y media coverage. D e f . ’s  M em. in Support of Motion to Change Venue , p. 5.  
It is undisputed that Defendant has a constitutional right to a fair trial with a fair jury —a 
panel of “impartial, indifferent jurors.” State v. Abdullah, 158 Idaho 386, 421, 348 P.3d 1, 36 
(2014).  On a change of venue motion, it is Defendant’s burden to show a reasonable likelihood that pretrial publicity will deprive him of a fair trial. Sheppard v. Maxwell , 384 U.S. 333, 86 S.Ct. 
1507 (1966); State v. Hall , 111 Idaho 827 (1986). However, where pretrial publicity is at issue, a 
“presumption of prejudice” necessitating a change of venue applies only in the most “extreme” of 
cases. State v. Hadden, 152 Idaho 371, 379 (Ct. App. 2012) (citing Skilling v. Uni ted States , 561 
U.S. 358, 379, 130 S.Ct. 2896, 2915 (2010)).  “The mere fact that the crimes reported by the media 
are gruesome or memorable does not render the publicity inflammatory to the extent of requiring a change of venue.” Hadden at 385.  The United States Supreme Court has also explained  that 
“juror impartiality does not require ignorance.” Skilling at 381, 130 S.Ct. at 2915.  
In determining whether pretrial publicity  has risen to a level that justifies a change of venue, 
Idaho’s appellate courts  look to a series of factors:  
the accuracy of the pretrial publicity; the extent to which the articles are 
inflammatory, inaccurate or beyond the scope of admissible evidence; the number of articles; whether the jurors were so incessantly exposed to such articles that they had subtly become conditioned to accept a particular version of the facts at trial; and the amount of time that passed between the coverage and the trial.     
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  4 
 Hadden at 377 (citing State v. Sheahan, 139 Idaho 267, 278 (2003) ; Hall,  111 Idaho 827, 829–30 
(1986) ). 
The United States Supreme Court has  held that only in the most extreme cases is a 
defendant afforded a presumption of prejudice  based on pretrial publicity . See, e.g., Rideau v. 
Louisiana, 373 U.S. 723, 83 S.Ct. 1417 (1963) (in a bank robbery homicide, defendant afforded a 
presumption of prejudice where his videotaped confession during a police interrogation was aired on local news three times  and seen by thousands ); and State v. Estes, 381 U.S. 532, 551, 85 S.Ct. 
1628, 1637 (1965) (during court hearing proceedings , judge allowed unmitigated camera access 
to the courtroom, including the filming of juror’s faces ). Neither Rideau nor Estes  apply here. 
Defendant in this case did not  confess to the murders , let alone on video broadcast to thousands ; 
and it is the State’s understanding that the Court will no t allow the filming of jurors ’ faces  at trial 
in this case .  
 Defendant urges this Court to find that Sheppard v. Maxwell , another U.S. Supreme Court 
case, applies here. D e f . ’s  Mem . in Support of Motion to Change Venue , p. 8 (citing  Sheppard v. 
Maxwell , 384 U.S. 333, 86 S.Ct. 1507 (1966) ). But Sheppard is wholly inapplicable to this case. 
In Sheppard, “bedlam reigned  at the Courthouse during the trial and newsmen took over 
practicall y the entire courtroom, hounding most of the participants at trial. . . .within a few feet 
from the jury box and counsel table sat some 20 reporters staring at Sheppard and taking notes .”  
Id. at 335, 86 S.Ct. 1507.  The Sheppard Court went on to explain the extreme nature of the media 
participation at trial:  
The erection of a press table for reporters inside the bar is unprecedented. The bar 
of the court is reserved for counsel, providing them a safe place in which to keep papers  and exhibits and to confer privately with client and co- counsel. It is designed 
to protect  the witness and the jury from any distractions, intrusions or influences, 
and to permit bench discussions of the judge’s rulings away from the hearing of the    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  5 
 public and the jury. Having assigned almost all of the available seats in the 
courtroom to the news media , the judge lost his ability to supervise that 
environment . The movement of the reporters in and out of the courtroom caused 
frequent confusion and disruption of the trial. And the record reveals constant commotion within the bar. Moreover, the judge gave the throng of newsmen 
gathered in the corridors of the courthouse absolute free reign. Participants in the 
trial, including the jury, were forced to run a gantlet of reporters and photographers  
each time they entered o r left the courthouse. The total lack o f consideration for the 
privacy  of the jury was demonstrated by the assignment to a broadcasting station 
of space next to the jury room  on the floor  above the  courtroom, as well as the fact 
that jurors were allowed to make telephone calls  during their five -day deliberation.  
Id.  This case has nowhere near the chaos present in Sheppard. As the Sheppard Court explained, 
“the carnival atmosphere at trial could easily have been avoided , since the courtroom and 
courthouse premises are subject to the control of the court .” Id. at 358, 384 U.S. at 1520. Here, the 
Court has scrupulously avoided such an environment . The Court entered a non- dissemination order 
early in the case.  When the small press pool that was allowed in the courtroom failed to follow 
the Court’s instructions as to filming or photographing the Defendant, the Court disallowed any media filming, phot ographing, or audio recording of court proceedings. This Court has repeatedly 
taken precautions to avoid the circus -like environment described in Shep pard and thus, Sheppard 
is easily distinguishable and a poor comparison to this matter.  
As the caselaw makes clear, the test is not knowledge of the case, but rather, partiality. See , 
e.g., Hadden, and see State v. Hairston, 133 Idaho 496, 506, 988 P.3d 1170, 1180 (Idaho 1999).   
Thus, the fact that Latah County survey respondents  had the highest percentage of knowledge 
about the ca se compared to other counties is far less significant tha n the fact that Latah County 
survey respondents had the least amount of overall prejudgment  among the counties . Def. Ex. B., 
App. B.  
 
    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  6 
 A. The survey data provided by Dr. Edelman is inadequate to justify a change of venue  
 
i. It is not reported how many individuals declined to take the survey , 
raising serious concerns about non-response bias. 
A glaring omission in the data provided by Dr. Edelman is the lack of any information 
about the number of individuals  who were contacted but chose not to respond to the survey. This 
is important because non -participation bias can change the outcome of such a survey . See, e.g., 
Scott Keeter et al., “What Low Response Rates Mean for Telephone Surveys ,” Pew Research 
Center, available at https://www.pewresearch.org/methods/2017/05/15/what-low-response- rates -
mean -for-telephone-surveys/.2  
As of the authoring of  the 2017 article promulgated by the Pew Research Center, telephone 
poll response rates  stabilized at approximately nine percent after years of decline. Id. While the 
Pew Research Center article conclu des that low response rate does not necessarily lead to a 
conclusion of bias  across all subject matters , low response rate can skew results in specific areas. 
Id. For example, individuals with high civic involvement are overrepresented  in surveys . Id. As 
the Pew article explains,  “[t]elephone polls greatly overstate civic engagement, probably because 
of non-response bias. As has been established in previous work , the people who answer surveys 
are likely to be the same people that are involved in their community’s public life – they are 
joiners.” Id. Such a  phenomenon could easily play a role here, where at the very outset of the 
survey, respondents were told that they were being  asked for “opinions about an upcoming jury 
trial.” Def. Ex. B , App. B.  
 
2 Defendant’s expert, Dr. Veronica Dahir, also writes that high non- response rates can affect the 
representativeness of a given survey. Def. Ex. F ., p. 5. Dr. Dahir writes that non -response rates are becoming 
less important due to various mitigation strategies such as opportunities to follow up, incentives, and 
interview trainings. Id.  However, while these mitigation strategies might apply to individuals who would 
not participate in any survey at all, they do not account for those individuals who may have declined to 
participate in the survey in this case due to the specific subject matter of the survey.     
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  7 
 This Court must ask itself: would an individual who was asked for their opinion about an 
upcoming jury trial continue a survey if they had no opinions about any upcoming jury trials?  And 
once the survey started, would a prudent, thoughtful, and conscientious person who is reluctant to 
pass judgment with limited information opine to a stranger whether they believe a criminally accused is guilty of murder?  
The Court should also consider the fact that , while the survey respondents were told that 
the poll was not political or sales -related, these survey respondents were never told why they were 
being asked questions . Def. Ex. B., App. B. They had no way of knowing whether the poll was 
being done on behalf of the  news  media, or a true crime blogger, or for some other purpose . Id. 
While they were told their responses would not be made public, t hey were never told whether they 
were being recorded. Id. One only has to exercise common sense to see that  there are innumerable  
reasons why prudent, thoughtful, deliberative, and conscientious individuals might hesitate to complete such a survey .  
Defendant ’s flawed  hypothesis is that if 98% of a self -selecting group who voluntarily 
chose to share opinions about an upcoming jury trial have heard about this particular upcoming 
jury trial, then 98% of all citizens who are summoned for jury duty will have also heard about it. 
The Court should reject this illogical leap  of faith  and embrace a more practical inference: it is 
more likely that a voluntary survey that begins by asking individuals to opine about an upcoming 
jury trial will overrepresent individuals with knowledge about an upcoming jury trial.  
ii. This Court does not have complete survey data and therefore cannot 
adequately compare data among the four surveyed counties.  
As Defendant acknowledges, this high- profile quadruple homicide case has  “captured the 
attention of the community, the State, the Country and even beyond the United States .” See Def.    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  8 
 Motion to Change Venue, p. 5. Given the amount of attention that this case has received across the 
entire state, there are two  critica l questions  on Defendant’s motion to change venue . The first 
question is whether a fair and impartial jury can be convened in Latah Count y. And if not, the 
second question is whether an alternative county would better safeguard Defendant’s right to a fair and impartial jury . After all, why would the Court change venue to another county that has nearly 
the same media saturation as Latah County? Yet the State and the Court were not provided a 
comprehensive list of survey responses  across all four of the countie s surveyed. In fact, Dr. 
Edelman’s report  focused primarily on Ada County as an alternative venue despite the fact that 
Canyon County and Bannock County, the other two counties surveyed, both received astronomically less media coverage than Latah County or Ada County . See generally Def. Ex. C ; 
and see Def. Ex. B, p. 5- 6, p. 50- 51.  
An example of the incomplete data provided from Canyon and Bannock counties i s found 
on pages 50 -51 of Dr. Edelman’s declaration, where he reports that  in Canyon County, 
“[a]pproximately 90% of the jury eligible population there had read, seen or heard about  the case 
and 51% followed the case ‘somewhat’ or ‘very’ closely,” and that in Bannock County,  
“[a]pproximately 84% of . . . survey respondents recognized  the case, some 14 percentage points 
lower than in Latah County . . . [j]ust 45% of survey respondents followed the case ‘somewhat’ or ‘very’ closely .” Def. Ex. B., p. 50. However, when Edelman discusses the Ada County survey 
respondents, he reports that while Ada County had a “93% recognition rate  . . . there were 
important differences between the Latah and Ada County jury pools. Ada County residents are far less invested in the case. Only 15% reported that they followed the case “very” closely, compared    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  9 
 to 29% percent of Latah County residents.”  Id. at 50 -51.3 It is unclear why the Court was provided 
the statistical number of survey respondents who followed the case “very closely” in Ada County, 
yet in Canyon and Bannock County, the “somewhat” and “very” categories were collapsed, 
creating a larger percentage. T his piece of context is especially concerning given that Defendant 
is advocating specifically for a venue change to Ada County, despite the fact that Ada County has a slightly higher prejudgment rate than Latah County, and a higher percentage of case recognition 
(93%) than either of the two alternative counties  (Canyon at 90% and Bannock at 84%). Def. Ex. 
B., p. 4- 5.  
Additionally, Dr. Edelman discusse s the phenomenon of “minimization effect,” which is 
when a p rospective juror attempts “to minimize the full extent of their exposure to pretrial 
publicity.” Def. Ex. B, p. 54. However, his discussion about the impact of this phenomenon on the 
actual survey respondents in this case was limited solely to Latah County. I d. at p. 54- 60. Similarly, 
as discussed in more detail below, nowhere in the survey report is there mention of answers 
provided by Canyon County or Bannock County survey respondents about the two most potentially 
prejudicial and inflammatory pieces of media information addressed by the survey: rumors that Defendant had stalked one of the victims or followed them on social media. Def. Ex. B.  
In an environment  where the Court has limited data and where Defendant is asking the 
Court to move venue to a county with a slightly higher prejudgment rate  among survey respondents 
with knowledge of the case , these types of omissions make it impossible for the Court to make an 
informed determination whether to m ove venue at all, much less to move it specifically to Ada 
County.  
 
3 Put another way, less than a third of Latah County survey respondents reported following the case “very 
closely.”     
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  10 
 iii. The majority of the survey focused on prospective jurors’ knowledge of  
information already within the court record and admissible at trial 
Defendant argues in his brief that this matter is an extreme case justifying a change of 
venue due to “[t]he continuous nature of media coverage, often inaccurate and misleading, the 
impact of the media coverage, and the small size of the community,” Def. ’ s Mem. in Support of 
Motion to Change Venue , p. 5. But as Idaho’s appellate courts have repeatedly held, facts are 
prejudicial when they are beyond the scope of admissible evidence or inaccurate. See Hadden, 152 
Idaho at 377;  see also Sheahan, 139 Idaho at 278 (“w hen reviewing the nature and content of the 
pretrial publicity, this Court is concerned with the accuracy of the pretrial publicity, the number of articles, and whether the articles will condition the jurors to accept a particular version of the facts 
at trial”); and see Hall , 139 Idaho at 829 (" [q]ualitatively, the courts must be concerned with news 
stories and editorials that are inflammatory, inaccurate or beyond the scope of admissible 
evidence.”).
4 
During the course of  Dr. Ed elman’s  survey, respondents were asked whether they had read, 
seen, or heard about a series of factual information items related to the case . Def. Ex. B, App. B.   
The majority of these items —that cell tower data showed that the Defendant was “near” the 
victims’ home several times in the months before the murder;5 that a knife sheath was found at the 
 
4 The Sheahan Court also went on to note that “the quantitative impact must also be recognized. When 
jurors are incessantly exposed to news stories selectively packaged for mass consumption, they may become 
subtly conditioned to accept a certain version of facts at trial .” Sheahan at 829-830. Unfortunately,  as 
Defendant acknowledges in his brief,  the entire state has been subjected to media coverage  about this case. 
The State would also point out that while Ada County had slightly less survey respondents who reported 
having heard about the case, slightly more of th ose who had heard about the case appeared to be 
“conditioned to accept” the Defendant’s guilt. Def. Ex. B, p. 4-5 (explaining that 98% of Latah County 
respondents and 93% of Ada County respondents have heard of this case, but of those, 67% of Latah County respondents and 68% of Ada County respondents are inclined to believe that the Defendant is guilty).
 
5 The probable cause affidavit did not explicitly state that Defendant was “near” the actual home of the 
victims, but stated that Defendant was in the vicinity of a cell tower servicing the area of the victim ’s 
residence twelve times in the months before the homicides.     
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  11 
 murder scene; that DNA found on that  knife sheath came back a match to Defendant; that 
Defendant dr ove the same type of vehicle seen in the neighborhood of the murders; that Defendant 
was arrested at his parents’ home in Pennsylvania ; and that Defendant has stated he was out driving 
alone on the murders6—are part of the Court record  and admissible at trial.  Id. Only  three of the 
questions  asked were not par t of the Court record. These questions were:  
Have you read, seen, or heard if university students in Mocow and their parents 
lived in fear until Bryan Kohberger was arrested for the murders?  
Have you read, seen, or heard if Bryan Kohberger stalked one of  the victims?   
Have you read, seen, or heard if Bryan Kohberger had followed one of the victims 
on social media?  
Def. Ex. B, App. B.  
According to Dr. Edelman’s report, 45% (less than half)  of Latah County residents 
surveyed responded “yes” when asked if they had read, seen, or heard that Defendant stalked one 
of the victims. Def. Ex. B p. 57. The report did not indicate the response rate for the other counties 
surveyed. Similarly, 45% of Latah County residents responded “yes” when asked if they had read, 
seen, or heard that Defendant followed one of the victims on social media. Def. Ex. B. p. 51.7  Dr. 
Edelman reported that only 35% of Ada County respondents reported having heard this 
information, but did not report on the responses from the other two counties. Id. As to the question 
 
6 As the Court is aware, this particular piece of information was placed into the public record by the 
Defendant himself  in his response to the State’s alibi demand . See Notice of Defendant’ s Supplemental 
Response to State’ s Alibi Demand.  
7 In his report, Dr. Edelman writes that “ only after the [rumors of stalking] had proliferated through the 
media and on social media for 16 months did the prosecutor clarify in the April 2024 hearing that it was 
untrue.” Def. Ex. B, p. 36. It is unclear why Dr. Edelman seems to believe the prosecutor is under an 
affirmative duty to make public comment about the veracity of social media rumors, and it is a strange 
observation indeed given that approximately 2 20 Latah  county residents  (55% of 400)  who responded to 
the telephone survey apparently heard this rumor for the first time directly from the survey company 
retained by the defense.      
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  12 
 whether individuals had read, seen, or heard that university students and their parents lived in fear 
until Defendant’s arrest, overall response rates were not provided for any county.  
 In any event, the substantial majority of the factual information asked of the survey 
respondents was not beyond the scope of what will be admitted at trial. Most of the items were 
contained within the court record . As to the prejudicial items related to rumors that Defendant had 
stalked one of the victims or followed any of them on social media, less than half of Latah County 
survey respondents reported even having heard of it . The data provide d to the Court demonstrates, 
if anything, the majority of  Latah County survey respondents had not heard the most prejudicial 
and inflammatory information pieces outside of the court record and that Latah County residents 
who have heard about the case were,  overall , statistically less likely to prejudge the Defen dant.  
B. The Court should decline Defendant’s invitation to disregard long- settled precedent 
establishing voir dire as the proper procedure for addressing bias.  
The survey relied upon by the Defendant  did not even ask respondents the most crucial 
question of all: whether they could set aside their biases and base their decision only on the 
evidence at trial . Def. Ex. B., App. B. Instead, Defendant and his experts ask this Court to simply 
assume that  the survey respondents —and by extension, all potential  jurors in Latah County who 
have been exposed to media information about this  case—are incapable of setting their biases aside 
and serving on a jury.8   
In Dr. Edelman’s declaration, he argues that a juror’s professed ability to be fair and 
impartial “should not be taken at face value in cases where there is substantial prejudicial pretrial 
 
8 Defendant also points to community members’ close emotional connection this case, citing candlelight 
vigils held for the victims, the fear experienced by many University of Idaho students, and other ways that 
the community was affected. The State does not dispute that individual jurors should be subject to extensive 
voir dire on these topics to determine whether and to what extent they may have been impacted after the 
homicides.     
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  13 
 publicity.” Def. Ex. B., p. 62. Similarly, Professor Scott  Sundby argues generally that small town 
residents where a crime is committed cannot be impartial jurors and will go into the proceedings 
with “a thumb on death’s side of the scale." Def. Ex. D , p. 4-5 (citing Socher v. Florida, 504 U.S. 
527, 532 (1992)). Sunby asserts that there are two distinct dangers to holding the trial in Moscow.  First, Sundby argues, jurors will be aware of community outrage and, as a result, might fear being outcast if they fail to return a death sentence. Def. Ex. D, p. 3. In support of this assertion, Sundby 
provides a single example – the Arkansas case of Bobby Ray Fretwell, whose execution was 
commuted after a juror came forward and admitted that he had voted for the death penalty for the sole reason that he feared b eing ostracized in the hometown he shared with Fretwell’s victim. 
“Death -Row Inmate Spared After Juror Makes Plea,” Steve Barns, New York Times, Feb. 6, 1999, 
available at https://www.nytimes.com/1999/02/06/us/death- row-inmate -spared -after-juror -
makes -plea.html . Setting aside the obvious issue with asking this Court to base a legal decision on 
a single news story in involving a nearly forty- year-old case that is not binding on this Court, there 
is a glaring distinction between the Fretwell case and this case: th e advent of social media and the 
internet. Assuming the 1984 homicide went to trial in the middle of the 1980s, it is virtually certain 
that media coverage was more localized  to the community rather than spread out across the State 
of Arkansas or the Country. Thus, had a judge even been asked to change venue in that case, it is entirely likely that, in the absence of pervasive media coverage, a different county may well have had a population that had largely not heard of the case. That simply isn’t the case  in this matter, 
where a significant number of individuals in every county surveyed were familiar with the case. Thus, it is a poor analogy that  has no legal or factual relevance to this Court.  
Second , Sundby argues that the homicide of University of Idaho students created a uniquely 
traumatizing effect on the city of Moscow, effectively rendering potential jurors “victims -once -   
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  14 
 removed.” Id. pp 11. In support of this assertion, Sundby offers another faulty analogy, claiming 
that trying  this case in Moscow would be tantamount to “allow[ing] a guard who worked in the 
same prison to serve on a jury where a defendant was on trial for the murder of a prison guard.” 
Id. pp 12. But that analogy is flawed becaus e it does not take into account the Court’s ability to 
convene a large enough jury pool to prevent anyone with such a close connection to the case to sit on the jury.
9 
Similarly, after arguing that exposure to media creates biases that are difficult to overcome, 
Dr. Amani El-Alayi concludes t hat venue should be moved outside of Latah County. Def. Ex. E. 
Dr. El -Alayi specifically  argues that “even extended voir dire by seasoned attorneys does not 
specifically mitigate pretrial publicity effects, despite its other potential benefits.”  Id. p. 12.10  
The problem with the Defendant’s experts, however, is that their opinions are directly 
contrary to the law. T he United States Supreme Court and Idaho’s appellate courts  have repeatedly 
held that a prospective juror may remain on a jury panel if a trial judge is persuaded that the juror can set aside their initial impression and render a verdict solely on the evidence presented at trial. See, e.g., Murphy v. Florida, 421 U.S. 794, 800, 95 S.Ct. 2031, 2036 (1975); see also State v. Hoffman, 109 Idaho 127, 130, 705 P.2d 1082, 1085 (Ct. App. 1985).  As the Idaho Supreme Court 
held in State v. Hairston:  
The trial court does not need to find jurors that are entirely ignorant of the facts and 
issues involved in the case. To hold that the mere existence of any preconceived 
notion as to the guilt or innocence of an accused, without more, is sufficient to rebut 
the presumption of a prospective juror’s impartiality would be to establish an 
impossible standard. It is sufficient if the juror can lay aside his impression or opinion and render a verdict based on the evidence presented in court.  
 
9 As discussed in more detail below, the Court can address concerns about bias arising from personal 
experiences during individual voir dire.  
10 The State would note that the research relied upon by Dr. El -Alayi consists largely of studies involving 
mock juries rather than the true jury trial process. See, e.g., id. at 4.    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  15 
 133 Idaho 496, 506, 988 P.2d 1170, 1180 (1999). And as the same Court explained in Hadden, “[i]t 
will only be  at the commencement of voir dire that the court and the parties will be able to 
determine if any of the prospective  jurors have formed an opinion based upon adverse  pretrial 
publicity. ” Hadden at 371 (citing lower court’s decision not to change venue)  (emphasis added) .  
Only then can a court determine whether the atmosphere of the court will be so “utterly corrupted 
by press coverage” that an unbiased jury cannot  be found. Id. at 379. Thus, as the State has 
previously argued, even if the Court determined that a change of venue would be necessary , the 
only appropriate way for the Court to do so would be after commencement of voir dire.  
C. The Court can fashion remedial measures for jury selection short of changing venue  
Because the Court has not been presented with evidence that a jury pool in Ada County 
would be any less likely to prejudge  the Defendant than one in Latah County, the best way to 
ensure that the Defendant gets a fair trial is to safeguard the jury selection process. First, the Court can convene a large jury pool. As noted elsewhere in this brief, if the Court were to summon 1800 
jurors, only 1 in 100 would have to be chosen  in order to select a jury of 12 plus six alternates. 
Next, the Court could send out questionnaires to each of the jurors to  gauge knowledge of the case, 
media exposure, biases, and other views. The Court could then allow the parties ample time to review each questionnaire, and the parties could then confer to discuss whether they had reached any stipulations as to disqualifications for cause. After t hat, the Court could take up the issue of 
any disputed juror s and determine whether  to dismiss th ose jurors for cause. Then, those jurors 
whose questionnaire passes initial review could be called back to the courthouse for actual voir dire.  
The Court could also allow a detailed individual voir dire outside the presence of the other 
jurors , which would address concerns outlined by Dr. Edelman i n his report. Def. Ex. B, p. 53    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  16 
 (explaining that research shows that prospective  jurors are more likely to be forthcoming and 
candid  outside the presence of other prospective  jurors).  If the Court were inclined to  allow the 
trial to be livestreamed, the Court could make an exception for individual voir dire and disallow 
any recording of the individual voir dire to  ensure that each juror being questioned would be 
maximally incentivized to freely and  candidly any questions asked of him or her.   
D.  Even if the Court were to find that a fair and impartial jury cannot be empaneled in 
Latah County, the Court may empanel a jury from a neighboring  county rather than 
moving the trial 300 miles south.  
Even if the Court were to be persuaded that a fair and impartial jury could not be empaneled 
in Latah County, the Court could rely on Idaho Code §19- 1816 and draw upon a jury pool from a 
neighboring county. To invoke Idaho Code §19 -1816, the Court must find that : 
(1) a fair and impartial jury cannot be impaneled  in the county where the criminal 
complaint, information, or indictment was filed ;  
(2) that it would be more economical to transport the jury than to transfer the pending action; and  
(3) that justice would be served thereby.  
I.C. §19- 1816. As explained in more detail in Section II below, the transfer of trial to Ada County 
would come at an extra ordinary cost. Transporting the jurors from a neighboring county , such as 
Nez Perce County,  would be a far more economical  option.  Similar in population size to Latah 
County, Nez Perce County has a population of over 42,000. United States Census Bureau data, 
available at https://data.census.gov/profile/Nez_Perce_County,_Idaho?g=050XX00US16069.  
Lewiston, the largest city in  Nez Perce County, is approximately 30 miles from the Latah County 
courthouse. Summoning a jury panel from across the  county line would incur far fewer costs and 
logistical issues  than moving the trial to Ada County.  
    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  17 
 II. Transferring venue would not be convenient for the parties and witnesses, nor would 
it be in the interests of justice.  
Defendant next argues that the Court should change venue under Idaho Criminal 21(b) , which 
provides that upon Defendant’s motion, a court may change venue to another county “for the 
convenience of parties and witnesses, and in the interest of justice.” I.C.R. 21(b).  This Idaho 
Criminal Rule addressing venue is distinguishable from its civil counterpart, Idaho Rule of Civil Procedure 40.1, whi ch also allows for a venue change for convenience, but is limited in scope to 
the convenience of the witnesses  and the ends of justice . Idaho R. Civ. P. 40.1(a)(1)(B) . Defendant 
does not even address  the convenience of the parties and  has failed to establish that a change of 
venue in this case is convenient for the w itnesses or  in the interest of justice.  
 First, Defendant argues that Ada County’s large population size has more than ten times as 
many potential jurors than Latah County and thus, offers a larger jury pool to choose from . But the 
fact that Latah County is smaller than Ada County does not mean that it is too small to select a 
jury. As the 11
th most populated county of Idaho’s 44 counties, Latah County is larger than 75% 
of Idaho’s counties.  Latah County’s jury- eligible population of over 32,500 could easily 
accommodate a panel of hundreds or even thousands of individuals being summoned for jury duty. 
See Edelman Decl. p. 3.  As noted above , if the Court were to proceed with a twelve- person jury 
and six alternates, the Court could easily summon 1800 individuals  (only 5% of Latah County’s  
total jury-eligible population) , meaning that out of every one hundred jurors called for duty, only 
one would need to qualify to be able to seat a jury .  
 Next, Defendant argues that the Ada County Courthouse can best accommodate this trial —
specifically, Ada County’s large courtrooms with adequate space for attorneys and room for 
spectators. But even Ada County cannot accommodate every interested spectator . One merely had 
to drive by the Ada County courthouse during certain days in the Lori Vallow trial of 2023 and the    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  18 
 Chad Daybell trial earlier this year to see a line out the door. The public interest in attending the 
Chad Daybell trial was so great that individuals who wished to attend had to apply online for a 
reservation the day before  to get a ticket into the courtroom. “Chad Daybell’s trial will be 
livestreamed. Here’s what you need to know if you want to be in the courtroom,” East Idaho News, 
March 17, 2024, available at https://www.eastidahonews.com/2024/03/chad- daybells -trial-will-
be-livestreamed -heres -what -you-need -to-know -if-you-want -to-be-in-the-courtroom/ .  On cases of 
such tremendous public interest, there is unlikely to be any physical courtroom large enough to 
accommodate every member of the public who wishes to observe.  Moreover, the Court can 
accommodate the large number of people who want to view the trial by providing live -streaming 
options . 
As to the size of tables for the attorneys, th e location of media, and the daily workings  of 
security, these logistical considerations can be addressed by  careful  planning wi th the local Trial 
Court Administrator  and the Administrative District Judge. There is no reason to think that the 
Latah County courthouse or its staff is incapable of addressing these administrative and procedural 
matters in the months leading up to the trial. Indeed, when Defendant filed a motion to remove cameras in the courtroom after media outlets repeatedly took close -up photographs of the 
Defendant in violation of a prior verbal admonition of the Court, the Court swiftly denied multiple 
subsequent media requests  and eventually issued its Amended Order Governing Courthouse and 
Courtroom Conduct , which prohibited the media from video recording, still photography, or audio 
recording during court proceedings . Def.’ s Motion to Remove Cameras from Courtroom , August 
24, 2023; Amended Order Governing Courthouse and Courtroom Conduct, January 5, 2024. There 
is no reason to believe that any subsequent concerns about media or security would not be addressed with similar effic acy.     
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  19 
 Defendant also argues that this case should be moved to Ada County based on cost. 
Defendant’s argument is limited to asserting that out- of-state witnesses who fly into Boise would 
be closer to the physical location of the courthouse, while Latah County witnesses  would 
potentially have to fly to the Spokane Airport and rent a car. The State does not dispute that the 
Spokane Airport is further from the Latah County Courthouse than the Boise Airport is from the 
Ada County Courthouse. However, the nearby city of Lewiston also has an airport serviced by 
Delta and United with nonstop flights to Denver, Seattle, a nd Salt Lake City. Lewiston Airport 
Website, available at https://www.golws.com/. But whether out -of-state witnesses fly into 
Lewiston, Spokane, or even Boise, the cost of rental vehicles  for a handful of out -of-state witnesses  
is only a fraction of the total cost picture.  
Most of the  State’s witnesses are local or will be traveling to Moscow by car. If venue is 
moved, those witnesses who are local would need to rent hotels in Boise, potentially for multiple nights, while they wait to testify.   The State’s law enforcement and emergency dispatch witnesses 
would have to potentially be awa y from work for days, rather than hours, creating a ripple effect 
of inconvenience.  Similarly, the medical examiner , who is based out of Spokane, would also have 
to extend her time away from t he office. Some witnesses who would otherwise drive to Moscow 
from Spokane or northern Idaho would have to obtain flights if the trial were moved to Boise, which would increase the costs.  
While Defense counsel took this case on a contract basis and will have to travel whether 
the trial is had in Ada County or in Latah County, the same is not true for the Court, the court reporter, the court clerk, and the Court’s staff attorney. All would have to travel to Boise either by air or in a State vehicle; would have to obtain lodging; and would have to arrange for per diem reimbursement for meals. The State, which  has the burden of proof and must  deal with the logistics    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  20 
 of juggling witnesses and trial exhibits would have to relocate both of its lead attorneys, as well as  
its support and victim services staff, for weeks and likely months. This would come at great 
expense for lodging, transportation, and per diem. Additionally, t he elected Prosecutor and his 
Chief Deput y would be physically away from the daily operations of the Latah County 
Prosecutor’s Office and from the  law enforcement agencies they advise, creating a potentially  
detrimental ripple effect for Latah County’s public safety operations .   
Finally, the Defense also asks the Court to  change venue on the basis that Moscow Police 
Chief Fry is  currently running for Latah County Sherif f. First, this presupposes the outcome of the 
November election and is premature.  
If elected  as Sheriff, Chief Fry would have  the statutory authority to summon a sufficient 
number of trial juror s in the event that there is an unanticipated shortage. Idaho Code §2- 210. 
Defendant states that Chief Fry is a witness, and therefore this duty would create a conflict. At this 
time, the State does not anticipate calling Chief Fry as a witness. However, even if he were called 
as witness  by the defense , and even if there were an unanticipated  shortage of jurors, he could 
delegate his authority to a senior chief deputy to exercise that  function if necessary . See Idaho 
Code §31- 2006 (allowing a county officer to designate a senior deputy to perform the duties of the 
office during a vacancy , absence, or inability) . 
The Court should also consider, in the interest of justice, the physical location of the 
victims’ families.  I.C.R. 21(b) (interest of justice a consideration in a court’s determination whether 
to change venue for convenience). It is the State’s understanding that most of the  victims’  
immediate family members  who are constitutionally entitled to attend trial proceedings live closer 
to Latah County than to Boise. See Idaho Const. Art. I, § 22(4).  It is also strange to the State that the surveyor did not do polling in geographically closer 
counties, such as Nez Perce county. Given how close the overall prejudgment rates among the 
surveyed counties were, it is entirely possible that Nez Perce County could have had an even lower 
prejudgment rate than Latah County. If the Court were to change venue, it seems to the State that 
·changing venue to a geographically closer county such as Nez Perce or Kootenai County Gust 
across the state line from the Spokane International Airport) would be less inconvenient than 
moving the trial 300 miles south to Boise. In any event, the Defendant has come nowhere close to 
demonstrating that moving this trial to Boise would be convenient to the witnesses or the parties, 
nor has the Defendant demonstrated such a move would be in in the interests of justice. 
CONCLUSION 
Defendant has failed to meet his burden of showing that change of venue in this case is 
necessary or convenient. The Court should decline his invitation to ignore well-settled precedent 
establishing the voir dire process. The Court should also decline to relocate itself, the State, and 
scores of witnesses hundreds of miles, only to face another jury pool with similarly high media 
exposure. Defendant's motion should be denied. 
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED this 12th day of August, 2024. 
Prosecuting 
STATE'S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE    
 
STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  22 
 
CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy  of the STATE'S OBJECTION TO 
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE  was served on the following in the manner 
indicated below: 
Anne  Taylor  
Attorney at Law  
PO Box 9000  
Coeur D Alene, ID 83816 -9000 
 ☐ Mailed  
☒ E-filed & Served / E -mailed  
☐ Faxed  
☐ Hand Delivered  
 
 Dated this  12th day of August, 2024. 
 
 
  
 