REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  1 Anne Taylor Law, PLLC  
Anne C. Taylor , Attorney at Law  
Bar Number: 5836 
PO Box 2347 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 512-9611 
iCourt Email: info@annetaylorlaw.com  
Ja
y W. Logsdon, Interim Public Defender 
Kootenai County Public Defender’s Office  
PO Box 9000 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208)446-1700 
El
isa G. Massoth, PLLC  
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, Idaho 83661 
Phone: (208)642- 3797; Fax: (208) 642-3799 
Assi
gned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 
Jay W. Logsdon, Chief Deputy Public Defender, Bar Number: 8759 
Elisa G. Massoth, Attorney at Law, Bar Number: 5647 
IN TH
E DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
CASE NU
MBER CR29 -22-2805 
REPL
Y TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR CHANGE 
OF VENUE 
CO
MES NOW, Bryan C. Kohberger , by and through his attorneys of record, hereby 
submits this Reply to the State’s Objection to his Motion for Change of Venue.   
The pressure to convict Bryan Kohberger is so severe that  Latah County survey 
respondents said if he wasn’t convicted:  STATE OF IDAHO  
P
laintiff,  
V. 
BRYAN C.
 KOHBERGER,  
D
efendant.  Electronically Filed
8/19/2024 4:53 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkREPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  2 “They’d burn the courthouse down. Outrage would be a mild description.” 
“They would probably find him and kill him.”  
“There would likely be a riot and he wouldn’t last long outside because someone would 
do the good ole’ boy justice.” 
“Enraged strong opinions. Firing of officers.”  “Riots, parents would take care of him.” The mo b mentality within the community is the exac t reason that s tatutory grounds, prior 
to sel ecting the jury, exist to move venue
1. Given these responses from potential jurors in 
Moscow  and the S tate’s acknowledgment that a remedy is needed for a jury to be selected , the 
state re cognizes the obvious : an enormous  venue problem exists. The State brings forth no 
experts to counter Mr. Kohberger’s  who are all clear, venue must be changed in this case.  The 
State does, however, acknowledge that Bryan Kohberger has a Constitution al right to a fair trial 
with an impartial jury.   
Mr. Kohberger ’s Motion to Change Venue is supported with a memorandum, expert 
affidavits, declarations and exh ibits that preview the testimon ial evidence the Court will hear on 
August 29, 2024. A rebuttal declaration of Dr. Dahir is submitted with this reply.  
On June 28, 2024, the Idaho Supreme Court pointed out that a change of venue “i s not an 
unreasonabl y high hurdle for a defendant to clear, but it does require proof of prejudice or a 
showing of a “reasonable likelihood” of prejudice. The court is also:  
1 Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U.S. 86 (1923).. At a minimum the defendant has a right to be free 
from physical violence or threat thereof. See, e.g., People v. Arthur , 314 Ill. 296, 145 N.E. 413 
(1924); State v. Dryman , 269 P.2d 796 (Mont. 1954); State v. BeBee, 110 Utah 484, 175 P.2d 
478 (1946) (by implication) ; Blevins v. State , 108 Ga. App. 738, 134 S.E.2d 496 (1963), rev'd on 
other grounds, 220 Ga. 720, 141 S.E.2d 426 '(1965). Some cases indicate that the defendant's 
right to present his case in a calm and dignified atmosphere, without interference, is the right being protected. See , e.g., Yancey v. State , 98 Ga. App. 797, 107 S.E.2d 265 (1959); State v. 
BeBee , supra Cf., Sheppard v. Maxwell , 384 U.S. 333 (1966); Estes v. Texas, 381 U.S. 532 
(1965). A third group of cases suggests the defendant is being protected from the p rejudicial 
atmosphere of which the mob domination is indicative. See , e.g., Seals v. State , 208 Miss. 236, 
44 So. 2d 61 (1950). Cf., People v. McKay , 37 Cal. 2d 792, 236 P.2d 145 (1951).
 REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  3 concerned with the accuracy of the pretrial publicity, the extent to which 
the articles are inflammatory, inaccurate, or beyond the scope of 
admissible evidence, the number of articles,  and whether the jurors were 
so incessantly exposed to such articles that they had subtly become 
conditioned to accept a particular version of the facts at trial." (emphasis 
added and citations omitted). 
State v. Ish, 551 P.3d 746 (2024) 
I. T
he Amount of media c overage in Latah County is the highest in the state and does
not wane . 
There are more than 1,300 specific media stories covering L atah County.  These stories 
are in print, digitally , and on radio and television .  Media coverage continues and t he coverage is 
often inaccurate and inflammatory.  The coverage conditions the potential venire panel to think 
of Mr. Kohberger as guilty and that various bits of information are factual and support guilt.  The 
media coverage inundating Latah County does not tell citizens that no evidence has been 
presented at this time; that there are no facts on the record at this time; that Bryan Kohberger is 
innocent; that only a jury decides what the facts are and whether the facts show beyond a 
reasonable doubt a person is guilty.  
Publicity regarding Mr. Kohberger has been ongoing since December 30, 2022.  It rises 
a
nd falls but does not wane .  The media measured and presented  by Truescope in Exhibit C of 
the Memorandum in Support of Change of Venu focused on traceable media. That means that 
media in a particular location was measured.  As is pointed out by the State in footnote 1 found 
on page 2 of it’ s objection, publicity regarding Mr. Kohberger generating from YouTube, 
Facebook, T ik Tok, Podcasts, streaming service s like Hulu  and Netflix were not included in 
Truescope’ s report. Those highly inflammatory , and prejudicial and inaccurate  media forms have 
reached  Idaho’s citizens, but measuring them specific to location is not possible.  Hadden directs 
the Court to consider media coverage in the current venue and logically, venues considered as 
alternates.   Truescope cannot measure the location of who reads Facebook (especially private REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  4 groups), nor can it determine the location of who follows certain podcasts.  These limitations do 
not change the data. Latah County, making up only 2.75 percent of Idaho’s population has 
received 36 percent of the media coverage. This is the highest ratio in the entire state. Ada County, with the largest population in the state, has significantly less coverage per person. 
II.Unrefuted Survey Data Justifies a Change of Venue
The State ’s claims about the survey are wrong. Dr. Edelman designed the sur vey 
questions and how, depending on the participa nt’s answer, the order of questions would flow. 
The survey report la ys out the questions and responses for all four counties and demonst rates that 
the survey was conducted exactly the same way in each county surveyed. The only difference is  
the number of participants
2.  
The survey report show s the impact of the media coverage. The more media items a 
potential juror  knew , the highe r the prejudgment for guilt. Latah County participant s knew mor e 
media items than the other counties. The State criticized the content of the survey , complain ing 
that not enough of the surveyed items were fals e3. Inadmiss ible or false statements are the 
information  that this Court must consider. See Ish at 764. 
The State further c riticized the survey, asking the court to disregard it entirely, alleging 
the survey did not include record of ci tizens in Latah County who did not want to participate in 
the survey. That assertion is incorrect. The last page of the su rvey report provides a table 
depicting the total amount of numbers dialed and what happened. In support of its ar gument, the 
State cites the Court to a study done by Pew Research Center, howe ver, only a partial statement 
from the stu dy was included. Dr. Veronica Dahir has reviewed the survey done in this case as 
2 The defense made a decision about where to focus time and money on a full 400 surveys.  While Mr. Kohberger 
will gladly agree to venue changed to any of Ada, Canyon or Bannock counties, Ada County is the most rational due 
to factors of population size, courtroom security and layout, cost/convenience and prior precedent of other district courts in Idaho.   
3 The State complained about the survey containing items that were false or inadmissible in a previous hearing.  
Now they complain that we should have put in more of these items.   REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  5 well as the Objection filed by the State. She op ines that any non-response r ate does not create a 
bias or invalidate the s urvey. Exhibit F-1, Dr. Dahir declaration. The survey conducted in Mr. 
Kohberger ’s case is unrefuted and is reliable.  
III. The State’s Proposed Remedies:  Expanding to Nez Perce County, vetting, or
sequestration are not valid remedies supported by experts.
E
xpanding the jury pool to Nez Perce County is not a remedy because the residents of
Lewiston and Nez Perce are in the same designated market area as Latah County4. They have 
been exposed to the same excessive media coverage, have proximity and share the same pressure 
to convict that exists in Latah County.  Even the two counties combined do not reach even a third of the size of the available jury pool in Ada County.  The residents of Ne z Perce County have 
been exposed to 36  percent of the total media coverage and are more than 10 times more likely to encounter coverage as compared to residents of Ada County.   
Vetting, as proposed by these S tate does not work. For d ecades, the courts have 
recognized that simply because a jury of 12 can be selected, does not mean that the jury is 
impartial:  
The requirement of the law is not satisfied by the mere empaneling of 12 men 
against whom no legal complaint can be made. The defendant is entitled to be tried in a county where a fair proportion of the people qualified for jury service may be used as a venire from which a jury may be secured to try his case fairly and impartially, and uninfluenced by a preponderant sentiment that he should be flung to the lions.  
St
ate v. Seal , 208 Miss. 236, 248, 44 So. 2d 61,67 (1950) .  See also  cases cited in 
footnote 1.  
T
his is why a ttempts to mitigate juror bias are  best done “where there has been less 
emotional investment and less publicity exposure regarding the case. “Dr. El Alayli, Def. Ex.E. 
pg. 12 Answers to the jury surveys in Ada County showed less emotional connection in total 
4 See Exhibit B, Dr. Edelman’s Survey Report, 370 pages of Lewiston Tribune news stories about Bryan Kohberger.  REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE  Page  6 contravention of Latah County.  When asked how the community would react to a not guilty 
verdict, surveyors answered:  
“They would go on with life as always.”  
“I think they would take it well.”  
“I don’t know if there would be super strong feelings. “  
“That’s what the jury is for, to decide based on the evidence. If a jury finds him not 
guilty, then he wasn’t guilty. Because they hear the evidence at the trial.”  
“I think they would accept it.”  
Rather than produce an expert who refutes the studies and opinions of Dr . El Alayli  and 
Dr. Veronica Dahir, the state points to cases that have not analyzed such research.  Judge Boyce in State v. Daybell  explains well how the case law dating back 50 years doesn’t address the 
concerns of today. For example:  
Once can only imagine what the Justices who decided [ Irvin v. Dowd] 50 years 
ago would have thought about that concern today, when every potential jury has 
instan t access to limitless media, literally at their fingertips, on a handheld device. 
5 
 Sequestration of 18 jurors for three months is unnecessary and untenable. Determination 
of sequestration is not timely as no motion for such is pending before this Court. Nor does the 
state produce details regarding costs to support the validity of its assertion that sequestering jurors from Ada County in Latah County is more cost effective than moving the trial to Ada County.  Idaho Criminal Rule 21(a) and Idaho Code §19 -1801 were implement for a reason.  
This case is that very reason.  
IV. Precede nt in Idaho supports a change of venue  
 
5 See State v. Daybell , Cr22 -21-1623 “Memorandum Decision on Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue” Dated 
10/8/21, pg. 6.  
 REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO 
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  7 Three capit al cases in Idaho have recently had a venue change: State v. Lori Vallow, 
State  v. Chad Daybell6 and State v. Brian Dripps. All cases stem from Southeastern Idaho.   The 
courts in these cases all granted a change a venue with a motion supported by evidence of 
extensive media coverage. None of the cases presented extensive expert surveys  and none of 
these cases presented experts specializing in the science behind juror decision making.  Of the 
three cases, two went to trial and as the state points out, there were lines  of spectators out side of 
the courthouse Ada County.  Jurors  in both cases provided in depth media interviews post- trial 
and expressed that the Ada County court staff and marshals’  provided great infrastructure that 
made a big difference in their ability to withstand the significant commitment.7 This 
infrastructure includes: room for jurors  to spread out during lunch breaks  into  jury  assembly 
room , many bathrooms to make  short  breaks efficient, travel to and from the courthouse with 
security, ability to avoid the press and spectators by being bused underneath the courthouse, and experience of the courtroom deputies to provide security.   
Such accommodations are not possible in Moscow. The facilities do not exist  to 
accommodate a jury of 18 for three months  in a case where the public and press will be lined up 
outside of the exterior of the building . The precedent of courts changing venue in Idaho and the 
experience of Ada County having handled high profile cases should be followed and used in this 
case.  
Conclusion 
Mr. Kohberger provided this  Court with extensive and unrefuted evidence . The evidence 
includes proof  of excessive media coverage in Latah County that is both prejudicial and false, 
along with declarations of  experts explaining why remedies other than a change of venue are not 
6  See State v. Daybell , Cr22 -21-1623 “Memorandum Decision on Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue” Date d 
10/8/21.  
7 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xrHrD1ZOhA , begging at minute 19:00 jurors discussion regarding logistics ;  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=92rrkKNkUm8&t=2273s , 3:00 – 6: 30 minutes  REPLY TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO  
DEFENDANT ’S MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE Page  8 enough. This evidence will be further developed at the change of venue hearing. The traumatized 
town of Moscow is understandably filled with deeply held prejudgment opinions of guilt. The 
surrounding area of Nez Perce County and Lewiston are not situated differently.  The issue of venue reaches finality with a change to Ada County because the Latah County mob mentality 
will never produce a venire that results in a cross section of the com munity.  
DATED:  
_/s/ Elisa G. Massoth  
E lisa G. Massoth  
CER
TIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___19____ day of August, 2024 addressed to:  
L
atah County Prosecuting Attorney – via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov 
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
S
tate of Idaho v. Jonathan Renfro 
Kootenai County Ada County  
Recognize the case  88.8%  33%  
Do not recognize the case  11.2%  67%  
Kootenai County Ada County  
Guilty 81% 60% % 
Not guilty 3% 5% 
Don’t know; Refused; Other  16% 35% 
S
tate of Tennessee v. Andrew Delke  
Davidson County Hamilton County  
Recognize the case  67%  16%  
Do not recognize the case  33%  84%  
Davidson County Hamilton County  
Guilty 48%  53%  
Not guilty 34%  13%%  
No opinion  8% 15%  
Don’t know; Refused; Other  11%  20%  
U
nited States v. Jairo Saenz  
Eastern District  Southern District  
Recognize the case  63%  49%  
Do not recognize the case  37%  51%  
Eastern District  Southern District  
Guilty 54%  39%  
Not guilty 1% 2% 
No opinion  7% 14%  
Don’t know; Refused; Other  30%  46%  
B-1
CR29-22-2805
8/19/24United States v. James Cloud 
Yakima  Richland  Spokane  
Recognize the case  55%  18%  10%  
Do not recognize the case  45%  82%  90%  
Yakima  Richland  Spokane  
Guilty 66% 40% 40% 
Not guilty .9% - - 
No opinion  8% 26% 25% 
Don’t know; Refused; Other  25% 34% 35% 
St
ate of Minnesota v. Alexander Kueng, et al. (George Floyd case)  
Hennepin Dakota  Olmsted  
Recognize the case  99%  100% 97% 
Do not recognize the case  1% 0% 3% 
Hennepin Dakota  Olmsted  
Guilty 60%  47%  49%  
Not guilty 22%  30%  29%  
No opinion  8% 7% 9% 
Don’t know; Refused; Other  11%  17%  14%  Volume of Media Coverage over Time
Latah & Ada Counties
1/1/23 – 8/19/24 
-20123446587108130151172194215
Jan 2023 Feb 2023 Mar 2023 Apr 2023 May 2023 June 2023 July 2023 Aug 2023 Sep 2023 Oct 2023 Nov 2023 Dec 2023 Jan 2024 Feb 2024 Mar 2024 Apr 2024 May 2024 June 2024 July 2024 Aug 20240 16
072135
130126
92117119211
8491
34171
65
39
111
03651
29198
161
4799
424481106
2230
2495
54
37
1318
Latah Ada
 C-1
CR29-22-2805
8/19/24Volume of Media Coverage over Time
US Coverage
1/1/23 – 8/19/24 
02K4K6K8K10K12K14K
Jan 2023 Feb 2023Mar 2023 Apr 2023May 2023
June 2023 July 2023 Aug 2023Sep 2023 Oct 2023 Nov 2023
Dec 2023 Jan 2024 Feb 2024Mar 2024 Apr 2024May 2024
June 2024 July 2024 Aug 20243,602
2,1004,470
2,73113,268
4,986
2,4442,598
1,888
1,2881,9604,798
9731,085
4042,827
1,548
853
520 534
US
1 | DahirDECLARATION OF VERONICA DAHIR, PH.D.  
I, Veronica Dahir, solemnly, sincerely, and truly declare and affirm as follows:  
I. EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS
I
 am the Director of Survey Operations for the Nevada Center for Surveys,
Evaluation, and Statistics and the Director of the Grant Sawyer Center for Justice 
Studies at the University of Nevada, Reno (UNR). I received my Ph.D. from the University of Nevada, Reno in Interdisciplinary Social Psychology. I have over 20 years of experience with survey research, and I have conducted over 100 surveys during my career, including the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Survey sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC ) in 
Atlanta, Georgia since 2006. I also teach a graduate level course for the Judicial Studies Program at UNR entitled, “JS 718: Scientific Research Methods for Judges,” 
which includes an entire section on Survey Methodology. I have also served as a 
guest lecturer for other UNR faculty for their  graduate- level courses on topics related 
to Survey Methodology. My full Curriculum Vitae was previously provided to the Court in Defendant Kohberger’s Memorandum in Support of a Motion to Change Venue.  
II. INTRODUCTION
C
ounsel for the defendant in State of Idaho v. Bryan C. Kohberger , as part of my
duties previously stated in my original export report, requested I consider the prosecution’s survey critiques of a community  attitude survey conducted by Dr. Bryan 
Edelman and Research Strategies, Inc. , and to give my opinion about the merit of those 
claims as they relate to the survey. I was provided with the defendant’s motion for a change of venue, the prosecution’s response to that motion, Dr. Edelman’s declaration related to the survey results, the report written by Dr. Edelman related to the survey results, and a copy of the survey that was used for data collecti on. My declaration is 
based on my educational background and expertise in the field of social psychology and survey research and is independent of my employment at the University of Nevada, Reno. 
F-1
CR29-22-2805
8/19/242 | Dahir  
 I give my opinion based on previous research in the field of survey research, the 
facts I know to be true based on the information in the Survey Report by Trial 
Innovations, Inc. and the Defense’s Memorandum in Support of a Motion to Change 
Venue.  My explanations are stated below.    
 
III. TELEPHONE SURVEY  
The community attitude survey presented to me by the defendant’s attorney 
was conducted to assess whether or not the media coverage had any effect on the 
potential  jury pool prior to trial.  The RDD (Random Digit Dialing) survey was 
conducted in Latah County, Idaho and in three other counties in Idaho: Ada, Canyon, 
and Bannock.  The questions on the survey included: general questions regarding 
respondents’ attitudes toward the criminal justice system as well as specific, detailed questions about the defendant’s case, including the crime and the surrounding community , and questions related to their media and pretrial public ity exposure. 
According to Dr. Edelman’s declaration,  
A telephone survey was conducted in Latah County. 
Comparison surveys were conducted in Ada, Canyon, and Bannock counties. Research Strategies Inc, which is based 
in Mobile, Alabama, was hired to field the telephone survey. Standard methodological practices related to the development of the instrument, interviewer training, sampling, and callbacks were closely followed. The survey instrument and methodology adhere to the professional standards and guidelines put forth by the American Society of Trial Consultants.
 All recognition questions were 
designed to describe the case using the language found in the media coverage. The surveys were in the field between March 5
th and July 6 th of 2024.  Ultimately, 400 jury -eligible 
residents in Latah County, 400 in Ada County, 200 from Canyon County, and 202 from Bannock County  
completed the survey.  
 
IV. RESPONSE TO STATE’S OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT ’S MOTION TO CHANGE 
VENUE  
 
I will address each item in order as enumerated in State’s Objection to 
Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue.  3 | Dahir  
  
A. The survey data provided by Dr. Edelman is inadequate to justify a change of venue  
 
i. It is not reported how many individuals declined to take the survey, raising serious concerns about non- response bias.  
 The prosecution states:  
 
A glaring omission in the data provided by Dr. Edelman is the lack of any information about the number of individuals who were contacted but chose not to respond to the survey. This is important because non- participation 
bias can change the outcome of such a survey. See, e.g., Scott Keeter et 
al., “What Low Response Rates Mean for Telephone Surveys,” Pew Research Center, available at 
https://www.pewresearch.org/methods/2017/05/15/what -low-response-
rates -mean -for-telephone-surveys/ . 
  Calling attention to the number of individuals declining to take the survey by the 
prosecution is a referral to the survey’s response rate.  On page 315 of Dr. Edelman’s report, “Telephone Survey Results: Descriptive Statistics, State of Idaho v. Bryan 
Kohberger” , he provides a table indicating how many individuals declined to take the 
survey: 
 
Call Performance 
Categories  Latah 
County  Ada 
County  Canyon 
County  Bannock  
County  
Won’t Participate  1417  1778  1085  1047  
 
Non-response bias occurs when those non- responders to a survey differ 
systematically on the nature of the source error from those who respond to the survey. 
In other words, bias only exists if there are statistically significant differences between those responders and non- responders in a systematic way.  For the most part, non-
response bias is measured based on those characteristics of the survey takers as 
compared to those characteristics of the non- survey takers, such as based on age, 
race, or gender. Re search Strategies, Inc. and Dr. Edelman used the appropriate 
survey methodology mitigation strategies to counter -act non- response bias, which I 
explain further below. Regardless, prosecution is claiming that the non- response bias 4 | Dahir  
 has more to do with those who did not take the survey and states that the main and only 
reason the non- survey takers would have refused to take the survey is because they 
had no knowledge of any  upcoming jury trial. Prosecution claims even goes so far as to 
state that the reason there is non -response bias in the survey is because if they did not 
have knowledge about an upcoming jury trial, they would have refused to take the 
survey. This hypothesis posed by the prosecution is called the “leverage- salience” 
theory  and results about this theory are mixed with respect to its impact on non-
response bias1.   
Groves (2006)2 reviewed 30 different studies estimating different variables that 
could contribute to non- response bias.  After examining over 319 bias estimates from 
these studies, he concluded that non- response, by itself, is a poor predictor of bias 
magnitudes and “non- response rates ‘explain’ only  about 11% of the variation in 
different estimates of non-response bias .”  Additionally,  I would like to point out that  
response rate is not a simple calculation of the total number of surveys completed 
divided by the total calls made. There are many other items that go into the calculation of a response rate, including known and unknown eligible sample numbers (e.g., completes, refusals, answering machines for known eligible households, no answer, always busy) and ineligible sample numbers (e.g., businesses, fax machines, fast busy signals, disconnected numbers).  
The pr
osecution’s own citation to research conducted by the Pew Research 
Center3 and other research conducted by their own organization4  found that “ Pew 
Research Center studies conducted in 1997, 2003, 2012 and 2016  found little 
relationship between response rates and accuracy, and other researchers have 
 
1 Groves, R.M., Singer, E., & Corning, A. (2000) Leverage- salience theory of survey participation. 
Description and an Illustration. Public Opinion Quarterly  64(3), 299 -308.  
2 Groves and Peytc heva, 2008, citing Groves, 2006 ( Groves, R.M. & Peytcheva, E. (2008). The impact 
of non- response rates on non- response bias. Public Opinion Quarterly, 72(2), 167 -189. Groves, R.M. 
(2006). Nonresponse rates and nonresponse bias in household surveys. Public Opinion Quarterly 70, 
646-675.) 
3 https://www.pewresearch.org/methods/2017/05/15/what -low-response- rates -mean -for-telephone-
surveys/  ( Kee ter, S., Hatley, N., Kennedy, C. & Lau, A. (2017). What low response rates mean for 
telephone surveys. Pew Research Center Report, May 15, 2017)  
4 https://www.pewresearch.org/fact -tank/2019/02/27/response- rates -in-telephone- surveys -have -resumed -
their-decline/  5 | Dahir  
 found similar results .” In addition, according to Groves (2006) as reported in Fowler et 
al., 2016, response rate is not a good predictor of nonresponse error , and recent 
research by the Pew Organization has shown that there are no statistical differences 
between surveys with lower response rates compared to studies with higher response rates
5 (as reported in Fowler, Roman, Mahmood, & Cosenza, 2016), and that “such 
reports can make researchers more comfortable reporting data from surveys with low response rates.”   
      Finally, the prosecution uses direct quotes  from the Pew Research Center 2017 
article  by Keeter, et al., “What Low Response Rates Mean for Telephone Surveys”, but 
conveniently omits other  direct quotes from the article.   
 
As the Pew article explains, “[t]elephone polls greatly overstate civic 
engagement, probably because of non- response bias. As has been 
established in previous work, the people who answer surveys are likely to be 
the same people that are involved in their community’s public life – they are 
joiners .” Id. Such a phenomenon could easily play a role here, where at the 
very outset of the survey, respondents were told that they were being asked for “opinions about an upcoming jury trial.” Def. Ex. B, App. B.  
 
Here is the exact quote from the article:   
Telephone polls greatly overstate civic engagement, probably because of nonresponse bias. As has been established in previous work, the people who answer surveys are likely to be the same people that are involved in their community’s public life – they 
are joiners. Fortunately for pollsters, civic engagement is not strongly correlated with political attitudes or most other measures researchers attempt to study with surveys.  
 
It is clear that the prosecution quoted all but the very last line in the above quote, which 
is “Fortunately for pollsters, civic engagement is not  [emphasis mine] strongly 
correlated with political attitudes or most other measures researchers attempt to study with surveys.”  
Prosecution also ig nores  two related (and contradictory)  important quotes and 
the main conclusion of this same article, which is that “… the current study and prior 
 
5 Reducing nonresponse and non- response error in a telephone survey: An informative case study 
(2016). Fowler, F.J., Roman, A.M., Mahmood, R., & Cosenza, C.A., in Journal of Survey Statistics and 
Methodology , vol. 4, pp. 246- 262. 6 | Dahir  
 research suggest that response rate is an unreliable indicator of bias.” And 
“despite low response rates, well -designed and carefully weighted telephone surveys 
still produce accurate information about the political profile of the American public…..”. 
The authors come to that conclusion regardless of a respondent’s greater likelihood of being a “joiner”  (Keeter et al. , 2017)  as the prosecution suggests.  
Prosecution concedes that non- response bias can be mitigated by conducting 
follow- ups, incentives, and training , but also states that these strategies only appl y to 
individuals who would not participate in any survey, and it does nothing to mitigate non-
response to a survey for someone that declines to take the survey because they have 
no opinion on the “specific subject  matter  of the survey “
6 (as in an upcoming jury trial) .  
 
Prosecution Claims:  
 
Defendant’s flawed hypothesis is that if 98% of a self -selecting group who 
voluntarily chose to share opinions about an upcoming jury trial have heard 
about this particular upcoming jury trial, then 98% of all citizens who are 
summoned for jury duty will have also heard about it. The Court should reject 
this illogical leap of faith and embrace a more practical inference: it is more likely that a voluntary survey that begins by asking individuals to opine about 
an upcoming jury trial will overrepresent indiv iduals with knowledge about an 
upcoming jury trial.
 
 
The position by the prosecution that those who have no opinion about an upcoming jury 
trial will not respond undermines the validity of all research.  Surveys are conducted daily all over the world about important political, economic, health- related topics, among 
others 
7 and by Courts and a number of large government agencies  to make decisions 
and to create policy.8 These surveys include respondents who may have no opinion 
whatsoever about  the subject matter of the survey. If respondents who took the survey 
were only those interested in the topic and those who did not respond to the survey were only those not interested in the topic, all survey research would be considered completely invalid. While it is true that the salience of the topic of the survey may increase participation in a particular phone survey, as mentioned above, the name of 
 
6 See footnote 2 of page 6 of the State’s Objection to Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue  
7 See Expert Report on Survey Research provided in defendant’s Memorandum in Support of Motion to 
Change Venue that was provided earlier to the Court.  
8 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Wor ld Health Organization, National Immunization Survey, 
U.S. Census Bureau, Office of Personnel Management, etc.   7 | Dahir  
 the specific  jury trial was not mentioned in the introduction of the survey conducted by 
the defense. If this statement by the prosecution were true, recognition rates and 
percentage of survey responders within each survey across all comparison venues 
would be equal to each other . That is, only those who knew about an “upcoming trial” 
would also take the survey. In reality, the salience of the survey topic can also decrease 
response rates  or increase non-response bias (more on this below) .  
However, following on the same line of reasoning as the prosecution, a 
respondent with no opinion on a topic would never be included in survey data, when in fact, the opposite is true. M any survey response options in survey design are written 
with the idea that the respondent will answer with exactly a “no opinion” response so 
that response option is offered to the respondent as a possible choice, as was the case in the telephone survey that was conducted by Research Strategies, Inc . for defendant 
Kohberger . Just because a respondent has  no opinion on the survey topic does not 
mean that can’t or won’t take the survey at all or won’t or can’t answer other questions. For example, in the telephone survey used specifically in this c ase, respondents were 
asked approximately eight  questions before they were ever asked a single specific 
question about this case, and if they had not read, heard, or seen anything about this 
case, they were then asked general questions about their media habits, and all case-specific qu estions were skipped (see survey in Appendix B , page 74 in Bryan Edelman’s 
Declaration provided in Defendant’s Memorandum in Support of Motion to Change Venue). There was no need for a respondent to quit or terminate the survey just because  
they did not have any opinion about the Kohberger case. In fact, the skip pattern in the 
survey allows for a respondent to skip to Question #17 if they state “no” on the two 
questions about recognition of the case.  Therefore, the prosecution’s argument is 
flawed in stating that there is non -response bias for those people who refused to take 
the survey just because they did not know anything about the case (or because they 
were not told the interview would be recorded) . There are many reasons why a person 
could have refused to take the survey unrelated to the case at all  (e.g., too busy, making 
dinner, not interested, driving right now, working, giving kids a bath, in the middle of a 
doctor’s appointment, at the store) , and there are many reasons why a person would 
terminate the survey in the middle of taking it. The non- response mitigation strategies 8 | Dahir  
 that are used by competent survey organizations (such as good survey design and 
interviewer training to include good refusal conversion strategies, incentives, follow -up 
calls, and statistical weighting) are used on all non- responders (not just those individuals 
who would never take any survey ), as the entire point of refusal conversion strategies  
and other strategies  is to mitigate non- response bias.   
The prosecution argues that survey respondents should have been told exactly 
who was calling and asking these questions and why. Doing so would have created 
bias. Those who would not want a survey to be conducted related to this crime because they would not agree to a change of venue for the defendant  for example (because they 
have pre- judgment and believe the defendant is guilty  or who believe he should face 
justice in their county only because it is their community and it directly effects them ), 
would lead not only greater non- response bias and lower response rates, but it could 
also lead to greater bias ed responses to specific  survey items. For example, a 
respondent who is told in the introduction to the survey that its purpose is to help the 
defense move Mr. Kohberger’s trial out of Latah County , may now refuse to take the 
survey completely because they do not want to “help” Mr. Kohberger, or possibly lie and say that they really did not know anything about the case, basically minimizing th eir 
knowledge.
9 Telling them about the case could create a “placebo effect”  as in clinical 
trials, where a person is told they are in the clinical condition where a new drug is being administered when in fact they are in the placebo group. Telling a respondent exactly why you are doing a research study (e.g., the hypothesis) is the opposite of scientific research protocol in a research trial due to the demand characteristics
10 generated 
when such knowledge is given to the participant. If a participant  know s exactly  why the 
study  is being conducted, that knowledge may influence their behavior. That is, the 
respondent  may change their behavior or respond in a way that would give the 
 
9 Bronson, E. (1989). The effectiveness of voir dire in Discovering Prejudice in High Publicity  
Cases: An archival Study of The Minimization Effect.  
10 Demand characteristics are cues that can indicate the purpose of a study to participants and can 
influence their behavior.  These cues can come from many sources, including the study ’s title, the study’s 
sponsor,  gossip about the study, the researcher's behavior or demeanor with the participants, the study  
methods , the study setting, and the tools used.  Demand characteristics can be problematic because they 
can bias research findings.   
 9 | Dahir  
 researcher the outcome the respondent thinks the researcher is looking for  due to social 
desirability to be a “good”  research participant.  
 
The Prosecution also states:  
This Court must ask itself: would an individual who was asked for their 
opinion about an upcoming jury trial continue a survey if they had no opinions about any upcoming jury trials? And once the survey started, 
would a prudent, thoughtful, and conscientio us person who is 
reluctant to pass judgment with limited information opine to a stranger 
whether they believe a criminally accused is guilty of murder?  
 
I respond to this comment with the same reasons I provide above. Specifically, 
respondents may refuse to continue the survey for the same reason they might refuse 
to start the survey in the first place, and those reasons may have nothing at all to do with the subject matter of the survey  (see examples I provided above) .  
To reiterate the quote above, prosecution states, “
Defendant’s flawed hypothesis 
is that if 98% of a self -selecting group who voluntarily chose to share opinions about an 
upcoming jury trial have heard about this particular upcoming jury trial, then 98% of all 
citizens who are summoned for jury duty will have also heard about it. The prosecution 
claims that Dr. Edelman’s statements, and therefore, Mr. Kohberger’s claims, cannot be 
generalized to the entire jury pool. The prosecution is stating that the defendant can 
only state that 98 % of the survey respondents  (a self-selecting group even though they 
were randomly sampled)  can claim such familiarity with the case and its related events 
and not 9 8% of those summoned for jury duty  (even though the entire point of a random 
sample of participants is to be able to generalize to the entire jury pool, from which those 
summoned for jury are ultimately drawn) .  
Based on the report of the survey results provided by Dr. Edelman, which 
includes the survey methodology employed, I find the prosecution’s statement to be flawed . Dr. Edelman and Research Strategies Inc. used the appropriate method of 
sampling telephone numbers from the community in a random manner in order to 
achieve 400 completed surveys in Latah County , 400 in Ada County  and 200  in each of 
the other t wo comparison venues  (202 in Bannock County) . Research Strategies, Inc. 10 | Dahir  
 also employed the appropriate survey methodology to minimize response bias (training 
interviewers) and non- response bias (following appropriate sampling and calling 
protocol).  In survey research, it is customary practice to order an X number of sample pieces (i.e., replicates of  telephone numbers) based on a formula that includes the 
incidence rate of the phenomenon of interest . It is  also proper calling protocol to call 
sample replicates up to 3 or more times, at different times of the day, and on different 
days of the week, in order to reach an eligible respondent until those replicates are called to completion. The number of completed surveys needed to represent an entire county or district (i.e., the jury pool) is calculated via a power analysis, often conducted using a sample size calculator widely available for free use on the Internet (see for example http://www.raosoft.com/samplesize.html). The number 400 was the target 
sample size used in Latah and Ada counties,  and when a sample size calculator is used, 
400 is the typical number used to generalize to a population of over 20,000 people, with a 95% confidence interval
11 (+ or – 5%), and a 5% margin of error when a binary 
outcome (e.g., 50% yes or 50% no) is expected or the outcome is  unknown. The most 
conservative response distribution that can be used in the sample calculator  is 50% and 
will yield the largest sample size regardless of response format  (i.e., yes/no, 5 point 
Likert Scales such as “strongly agree to strongly disagree” ). The random sampling that 
was used to achieve the target number of completed surveys allows for the ability to generalize the survey results to the entire jury pool. Research organizations such as the Rand Corporation and the Pew Research Center often predict (with accuracy) political poll results across the entire nation based on a random sampling of only 1000 completed household surveys (see for example, Frequently Asked Questions and “How can a small sample of 1,000 (or even 10,000) accurately represent the views of 250,000,000+ Americans?” at 
https://www.pewresearch.org/our -methods/u-s- surveys/frequently -
asked- questions/ ). 
The 20 0 randomly sampled completed surveys in the other counties could 
possibly be weighted to represent the larger populations in those districts in order to 
 
11 Confidence Interval = The points (range) between which the true population parameter (population estimate) 
will fall 95%  of the time, if statistical assumptions regarding sampling are met.  
 11 | Dahir  
 reduce the non- response bias, but the 20 0 completed surveys , even without this 
weighting,  can still be statistically analyzed to provide meaningful information about 
those sampled in order to describe the community attitudes likely to be found in those 
jury pools , there will just be a slightly larger margin of error .  
 
V. CONCLUSION  
In conclusion, I do not find any supporting evidence for the p rosecution’s claim 
that the “ Defendant has failed to meet his burden of showing that change of venue in this 
case is necessary” based on the community attitudes survey conducted by Dr. Bryan 
Edelman and Research Strategies, Inc. on behalf of the defendant.    In fact, in my opinion, 
I find the opposite to be true.  
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Nevada that the 
foregoing facts are true and correct, except as to facts stated upon information and 
belief, which facts I believe to be true.  
 
August 19, 2024  
 
 
 
  Veronica Dahir, Ph.D.  
 
     
 
 
 
