MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM    Page - 1 Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender 
Kootenai County Public Defender 
PO Box 9000 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 446- 1700; Fax: (208) 446- 1701 
Bar Number: 5836 
iCourt Email: pdfax@kcgov.us  
 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC  
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, ID 83661  
208-642-3797 
 
Assigned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 
Jay Weston Logsdon, Chief Deputy Litigation, Bar Number: 8759 
Elisa G. Massoth, Bar Number: 5647 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND  JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR29 -22-0002805 
 
 
 
 
MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS 
FROM COURTROOM  
 
 
Comes Now, Bryan C. Kohberger, through his attorneys of record and files this  Motion to 
remove cameras from the courtroom for the remainder of the proceedings in this matter  pursuant to 
his right to a fair trial and the effective assistance of counsel guaranteed him by the Sixth and 
Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution and Art. I Section 13 of the Idaho 
Constitution. STATE OF IDAHO  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
8/24/2023 3:07 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkMOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM    Page - 2 I. Camera -Weilding Courtroom Observers Have Failed to Obey the Court’s June 
27th Directive to Cease Focusing Exclusively on Mr. Kohberger, Necessitating the 
Expulsion of Cameras from Future Proceedings  
 The question presented by this Motion is whether Mr. Kohberger faces deprivation “of his 
right under the Fourteenth Amendment to due process by the [continued] televising and 
broadcasting of his trial.” Estes v. State of Texas, 381 U.S. 532, 535 (1965). Re cent press behavior in 
the courtroom clearly demonstrates that such is the case.  
 Nearly two months ago, on June 27th, 2023, the Court warned press observers not to focus 
strictly on Mr. Kohberger and to show a wide shot of the courtroom if they wished to continue 
filming court proceedings live. Fox News, Bryan Kohberger judge issues warning to media at start of hearing on Idaho student murders, June 27, 2023, available at: 
Bryan Kohberger  judge issues warning to media at 
start of hearing on Idaho student murders | Fox News . Press observers have thus far failed to 
comply with the court’s direction, as the continued publication of images such as those shown below continues to the present day.  
   
Lewiston Tribune, via AP, August 18, 2023                               Reuters, August 18, 2023                                    Reuters, August 18, 2023   
These photos, a blatant violation of the Court’ s directive to cease focusing exclusively on 
Mr. Kohberger in their own right, are also later appended to articles with blatantly sensationalistic and prejudicial headlines and content —the rightmost of the three photos above being used in an 
August 22, 202 3, Daily Beast  article, “ Report Says Kohberger’s Creepiness With Women Goes Back to High 
MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM    Page - 3 School. ” Available at: https://www.thedailybeast.com/idaho- suspect -bryan -kohberger -was-
reportedly -kicked -out-of-high- school -law-enforcement -program .  
Further, the cameras’ continued exclusive focus on Mr. Kohberger provides fodder for 
observers and purported “analysts” on social media, who are not bound by notions of journalistic 
integrity a nd who have potentially an even greater reach than traditional media outlets. The 
proliferation of these images and videos is plainly observable on social media platforms such as TikTok and “X” (formerly Twitter) in posts such as those provided below:  
                
 
At: https://x.com/tyotoys/status/1692705716874662159?s=46 At: https://twitter.com/jossytweets/status/1692673987296338019?s=46  
As the press itself notes, in the Court’s June 27th admonition, the Court “referenced the 
recent Chad Daybell trial, when cameras were asked to leave because they focused too much on the defendant.” Fox 13 Seattle, Idaho judge reins in court cameras in Bryan Kohberger evidence hearing as trial in student murders looms, June 27, 2023, available at: 
https://www.fox13seattle.com/news /idaho- judge -
reins-in-court -cameras -in-bryan -kohberger -evidence -hearing -as-trial-in-student -murders -looms . 
Indeed, such a parallel was drawn in the Defense’s prior Memorandum on Cameras During Hearings. Yet camera- wielding courtroom observers remain und eterred. “[T]he chief function of our judicial 
machinery is to ascertain the truth. The use of television, however, cannot be said to contribute materially to this objective. Rather its use amounts to the injection of an irrelevant factor into court procee dings.” Estes, 381 U.S. at 545.  
MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM    Page - 4  As has previously been argued, the circumstances present in Mr. Kohberger’s case 
are singular and pose an extraordinary risk of prejudice beyond even that posed in Estes . Observers’ 
continued failure to comply with the Court’s June 27th directive compounds this problem and results 
in the potential jury pool’s constant inundation with conclusory accusations and sensationalistic 
nonsense guised as factual reporting and analysis. Whereas in Estes the attendant risk of prejudic e 
was limited to potential jurors’ watching of television or reading of print media, now this risk follows the potential jury pool wherever they go, viewable on their smartphones and constantly updated by thousands of unchecked sources. “Each juror carries  with him into the jury box these 
solemn facts and thus increases the chance of prejudice that is present in every criminal case…. [I]t is not only possible but highly probable that it will have a direct bearing on his vote as to guilt or innocence.” Id.  
 The images and videos provided above were taken during pre -trial court proceedings, but 
pose no less danger. To the contrary, they gradually poison the potential jury pool prior to trial even 
occurring, winnowing the number of jurors able to render a just , unbiased verdict. “To the extent 
that television shapes...sentiment, it can strip the accused of a fair trial.” Id., 381 U.S. 550. The Estes 
Court itself noted that unrestricted television coverage can be corrosive to non- trial proceedings and 
preemptive ly limit the potential for an eventual fair verdict:  
It is contended that this two- day pretrial hearing cannot be considered in 
determining the question before us. We cannot agree. Pretrial can create a major 
problem for a defendant in a criminal case. Indeed, it may be more harmful that 
publicity during the trial for it may well set the community opinion as  to guilt or 
innocence. Though the September hearings dealt with motions to prohibit television coverage and postpone the trial, they are unquestionably relevant to the issue before 
us.  
 
Estes, 381 U.S. at 536.  
As such, far from constituting an undue and over restrictive burden on the press’ right of 
free speech, expulsion of cameras used to flout the Court’s limited directive that Mr. Kohberger not MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM    Page - 5 be the sole focus of images and videos taken is the sole means of limiting what the Estes Court 
expressly re cognized to be “a form of mental —if not physical —harassment….” Id., 381 U.S. at 549. 
“The inevitable close -ups of his gestures and expressions during the ordeal of his trial might well 
transgress his personal sensibilities, his dignity, and his ability to concentrate on the proceedings 
before him —sometimes the difference between life and death —(as indeed it is here), 
dispassionately, freely, and without the distraction of wide public surveillance.” Id, 381 U.S. at 549 . 
“A defendant on trial for a specific c rime is entitled to his day in court, not a stadium, or a city or 
nationwide arena.” Id. Similarly, Mr. Kohberger is entitled to defend himself against capital criminal 
charges with out cameras focused on his fly.  
 
II. Observers’ Continued Minute Scrutiny o f Counsel Table is Violative of the Court’s 
May 16th Order Governing Courthouse and Courtroom Conduct and Distracting to 
Defense Counsel  
 In addition to the inordinate and exclusive focus on Mr. Kohberger, courtroom observers 
have routinely violated the Co urt’s May 16, 2023 Order providing, in part, that “[n]o video or still 
photograph shall be taken of any papers, documents, or notes which may be located on or around counsel tables or used by counsel.” Order Governing Courthouse and Courtroom Conduct, § III(D) . This 
noncompliance is clearly demonstrated in the below -provided photos taken during the most recent 
hearing, and has continuously undermined the Court’s stated interest in “maintaining order and an environment that permits all participants to focus on their responsibilities without undue distractions.” Aware of the constant attention paid to counsel table and the risk that confidential and sensitive information could be scrutinized, photographed and published, defense counsel has been MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM    Page - 6 forced to diver t their attention to ensure notes and other materials are hidden from prying eyes.       
 
This exact conduct was found by the Estes Court to be a circumstances depriving the petitioner of a 
fair trial. See Estes, 381 U.S. at 538 (“The petitioner was subjected to characterization and minute 
electronic scrutiny to such an extent that at one point  the photographers were found attempting to 
picture the page of the paper from which he was reading while sitting at counsel table.”) Whereas in Estes this conduct was characterized as a singular and extreme occurrence, in the present case it has 
become di sruptively routine, and must be abated if Mr. Kohberger is to receive effective 
representation.       
CONCLUSION  
 The press have failed to obey the Court’ s directive not to exclusively photograph and record 
Mr. Kohberger to the exclusion of all else, jeopardizing his ability to undergo fair judicial 
MOTION TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM COURTROOM  P age - 7 proceedings, free of undue prejudice and juror bias. As such, cameras must be expelled from the 
courtroom for the duration of Mr. Kohberger’s case, including pretrial hearings, as well as trial itself.  
DATED this ___ 23____ day of August , 2023.  
A
NNE C. TAYLOR, PUBLIC DEFENDER  
KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER  
BY : 
J AY WESTON LOGSDON 
CHIEF DEPUTY LITIGATION  
ASSIGNED ATTORNEY  
C
ERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY  
I
 hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the _______ day of August, 2023 addressed to: 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –v ia Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – v ia Email: legalassi stant@kmrs.net  
 
____________________________________
 
