Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’
 Opposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 1 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  Wendy J. Olson, Bar No. 7634 
wendy.olson@stoel.com 
Cory M. Carone, Bar No. 11422 
cory.carone@stoel.com 
STOEL RIVES LLP 
101 S. Capitol Boulevard, Suite 1900 
Boise, ID  83702 
Telephone:  208.389.9000 
Facsimile:  208.389.9040 
Attorneys for Intervenors 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SE COND JUDICIAL DI STRICT OF THE 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH 
STATE OF IDAHO, 
Plaintiff, 
v. 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER, 
Defendant. Case No. CR29-22-2805 
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in Support 
of Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to 
Remove Cameras from the Courtroom 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; RADIO 
TELEVISION DIGITAL NEWS 
ASSOCIATION; SINCLAIR MEDIA OF 
BOISE, LLC/KBOI-TV (BOISE); STATES 
NEWSROOM DBA IDAHO CAPITAL SUN; 
TEGNA INC./KREM (SPOKANE), KTVB 
(BOISE) AND KING (SEATTLE); 
EASTIDAHONEWS.COM; THE LEWISTON 
TRIBUNE; WASHINGTON STATE 
ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS; 
IDAHO PRESS CLUB; IDAHO EDUCATION 
NEWS; KXLY-TV/4 NEWS NOW AND 
KAPP/KVEW-TV—MORGAN MURPHY 
MEDIA KXLY-TV/4 NEWS NOW; SCRIPPS 
MEDIA, INC., DBA KIVI-TV, A DELAWARE Electronically Filed
9/8/2023 2:36 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy Clerk 
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 2 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  CORPORATION; THE SPOKESMAN-REVIEW/COWLES COMPANY; THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY; LAWNEWZ, INC.; ABC, INC.; WP COMPANY LLC, DBA THE WASHINGTON POST; SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS; THE MCCLATCHY COMPANY, LLC; and THE SEATTLE TIMES,  
Intervenors. 
 
  I, Rebecca Boone, declare and state as follows:  
 1. I am the supervisory correspondent for Id aho for The Associated Press. As such I 
have personal knowledge of th e facts and statements contai ned in this declaration. 
 2. I have 25 years of jour nalism industry  experience, much of that time spent 
covering the judicial branch a nd criminal justice issues.  
3. I have reported on the Nov. 13, 2022 deaths of  four University of Idaho students, 
the subsequent criminal invest igation and the arrest and pr osecution of Bryan Kohberger.  
 4. I graduated from the University of Ida ho with a bachelor’s degree in journalism in 
1999, and I covered the courts and law enforcemen t beat for The Lewiston Tribune before I 
joined The Associated Press in 2002 as a reporter in the Boise bureau.  
5. In 2013 I was promoted to my curren t position of supervisory correspondent, 
tasked with leading AP’s news coverage in Id aho. I am also a member of AP’s national law 
enforcement beat team and I have extensive expe rience covering criminal and civil litigation in 
state and federal courts.  
6. I was an Idaho Press Club board member  from 2014 until earlier this year, when I 
stepped down due to time constraints. I am a l ongtime advisory board memb er of the University 
of Idaho’s School of Jour nalism and Mass Media.  
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 3 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  7. I became a Loyola Law School Journa lism Law School Fellow in 2012. I also 
regularly serve as a panelist for training program s offered to teachers a nd journalists through a 
partnership between the University of Idaho Co llege of Law, the Idaho Supreme Court and the 
U.S. District Court of Idaho. During those panels  I typically train attendees on subjects including 
news literacy, how to access court documents, the ethics of coveri ng the courts, how to 
incorporate the rule of law into press coverage  and why press access to th e judicial branch is 
vital for an info rmed citizenry.  
8. I have been a member of several pres s pools and helped facilitate press pool 
coverage during the course of my work at AP.  
9. Press pools allow a small num ber of journalists to repor t on behalf of a larger 
group of news organizations.  
10. In my experience, press pools serve multiple  purposes which benefit the public 
and court administrators as we ll as news organizations.  
11. Press pools allow news organizations to save money by reduci ng travel costs and 
staffing time. This, in turn, allo ws those news organizations to  provide robust news coverage 
across multiple subject areas rather than fo cusing limited money and resources on one major 
story.  
12. Press pools provide the cour ts with stronger controls over the logistics of news 
coverage, limiting the physical footprint and number of camer as in the courtroom without 
placing an undue burden on pr ess and public access.  
13. In my experience, judges and court ad ministrators sometimes define the areas 
where pool journalists may set up inside a courtroom or constr ain them from making certain 
types of visual images such  as photographs of jurors.   
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 4 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  14. Pool photographers and videographers are expected to have their equipment set 
up before court begins. They ge nerally remain in that posi tion throughout the proceedings.  
In my experience, press pools used in Idaho c ourtrooms typically include  anywhere between one 
and four cameras, divided betw een photography operators and vi deo operators. Pool photo and 
video operators are frequently posit ioned so that they can collect multiple views of the courtroom 
(for instance, one camera might face the bench and witness stand, while another faces the 
prosecution and defense tables). Having multiple  views allows news organizations to more 
accurately depict events inside the courtroom.   15. Pool photographers and videographers al so tend to be vetera n journalists with 
experience covering the courts, skilled at producing strong ne ws images in an unobtrusive 
manner. They are selected in part based on their skill level, experience, availability, and equipment. That equipment include s still cameras that can take phot os silently without obtrusive 
shutter noise or loud flashes. Video cameras,  though small enough to  be operated while 
physically held by a videographer, are typically set up on tripods tucked near courtroom walls.  
Audio equipment is often plugged directly into the courtroom’s existing sound system. It is my 
experience that during one-on-one in terviews, news subjects often se em to ignore or forget about 
the cameras in the room with in the first few minutes. The same phenomenon seems to occur 
during court cases – the video and photo cameras become part of the furniture in the courtroom 
while trial participants focus closely on attorneys and witnesses.   16. The pool camera operator s are expected to provide a variety of images and 
recordings representing the events occurring in th e courtroom.  Pool memb ers are not required to 
use all of the images or recordings but may pi ck and choose those whic h best fit their news 
coverage needs.   
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 5 
120806100.1 0080406-00001   17. During the August 18 hearing, pool phot ographer August Frank provided 18 still 
photos to the rest of the pool. F our of those photos focused on Kohberger entering the courtroom, 
talking to his attorney and watching the proceedings. A fifth photo was focused on the image of Judge Judge displayed on the courtroom projector and included the back of Kohberger’s head in 
the foreground.  
18. The remaining 13 photos focused on ot her participants in the proceedings, 
including the court reporter, Judge Judge, Ingrid  Batey, Jeff Nye, Bill Thompson, Steven Mercer, 
Elisa Matthoth, Anne Taylor, Bicka Barlow , Gabriella Vargas and Leah Larkin.  
19. AP’s photo editors opted to move 11 of t hose photos to the wire as part of AP’s 
news coverage, including three showing Kohbe rger and eight showi ng the other hearing 
participants.  
20. Press pools create a better  informed public by providing credible and verifiable 
information about newsworthy events . They also build a historical record that can be immensely 
valuable for future scholarship – a role perhaps best  demonstrated by the trial of the accused 
conspirators of Abraham Lincoln’s assassination in 1865. The judge in that case initially barred 
newspaper reporters from the cour troom, but allowed the AP to hire  the official stenographer for 
the U.S. House of Representatives  to produce a transcript in ca se the censorship was lifted. The 
tribunal was opened to news reporters on the sec ond day of the trial, and an AP news reporter’s 
visual descriptions and notes paired with Franci s H. Smith’s transcripts informed readers across 
the country about the important court proceedings. The AP repor ts and transcript effectively 
served as pool coverage for newspapers around the world and became primary source material 
for historians. (Frances R. Mear s and Reporters of The Associat ed Press, Breaking News, page 
59, New York, Princeton Arch itectural Press, 2007).  
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 6 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  21. There are several considerat ions involved in creating a press pool. First the news 
organizations interested in coverage of a courthou se event must get in contact with each other, 
forming the “pool.” They then must select the news outlets which will provide the pool video 
and photo images, and agree on a distribution method for sharing those images in a timely 
manner. 
22. For instance, I called Le wiston Tribune managing edito r Craig Clohessy in April 
to see if The Lewiston Tribune and Moscow-Pullma n Daily News had intere st in serving as pool 
photographers for Mr. Kohberger’s upcoming cour t proceedings. Around the same time, Tribune 
photo editor August Frank emailed AP and severa l other news organizations to set up the photo 
pool, making plans to distribu te the photos using a Google dr ive folder accessible by a link 
provided to pool members as well as  by sending them directly to AP.  
23. For the video pool, I reached out to Idaho Supreme Court spokesman Nate 
Poppino on May 18 to find out which news organizat ions had requested video approval for Mr. 
Kohberger’s arraignment.  
24. I used the list of 10 news outlets pr ovided by Poppino to create an email chain, 
adding representatives from other news organizations that I knew were closely covering the case. 
The resulting email went out to 39 recipients, the majority of th em based in Idaho and eastern 
Washington.  
25. I included Poppino on the email chain so  that court administrators would be 
looped in on the process. I did this as a courte sy because I felt it would aid in transparency and 
understanding between court and me dia personnel, especially given the broad public interest in 
the case.   
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 7 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  26. Once CourtTV was selected as the video provider, the members of the pool began 
developing a plan to efficiently distribute the videos. Different ne ws organizations use different 
technologies for collecting and tr ansmitting images, and so transf erring video from one outlet to 
another in a timely manner can be challenging. It of ten requires expensive on-site equipment, 
such as specialized news satellite trucks.  
27. CourtTV’s video-sharing equipment requi res other news organizations to be on-
site to physically plug in and download the cour troom videos. As a resu lt, Seattle TV station 
KOMO agreed to send someone with additional e quipment to Moscow to collect the video from 
CourtTV. KOMO was then able to remotely transmit the video to other regional television 
stations through an existi ng Seattle pool matrix, as well as to  provide it to The AP and Reuters 
via an online platform  called WeTransfer.  
28. The AP shared the video with AP memb er news organizations  via the AP wire. 
Gillian Flaccus, AP’s assistant news director for the Pacific Northwest region, also emailed the 
WeTransfer link to pool members w ho are not AP subscribers so that they too could quickly 
access the court video.  
29. The pool sharing process was complicated  and required the cooperation of several 
normally competing news organizations, as well as  significant investment s in travel and staff 
hours by The Lewiston Tribune, Co urtTV and KOMO. But those e fforts meant that dozens of 
interested news organizations di d not have to send their own phot ographers and videographers to 
Moscow to try to capture the images needed for informative and effe ctive news coverage.  
To put it simply, the pool coverage allowed th e media organizations to  dramatically minimize 
the impact of the news reporting process on the Latah County Court house and on the Moscow 
community.   
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 8 
120806100.1 0080406-00001   30. It has been my experience when there is not an opportunity for pool coverage on 
high-interest cases, more news outlets send journa lists to the courthouse to set up still photo and 
video cameras outside the courtr oom. That creates a much larger visible media presence, which 
can be distracting for people passing by as well as those entering and leaving the courthouse.  
The larger media presence can also have a broade r impact within the community, with reporters 
filling their time outside of court proceedings  by seeking on-air interviews and recording live 
shots at other visually  relevant locations.  
 31. In a recent Idaho case, Lori Vallow Da ybell was charged with multiple counts of 
conspiracy to commit murder, first-degree murder and grand theft in connection with the deaths 
of her two youngest children and of  her fifth husband’s late wife.  
 32. There was broad public interest in th e case, and the deaths had a significant 
impact on people in several states including Idaho, Arizona and Utah.  
 33. The judge presiding over the case ba rred cameras from th e courtroom after 
Vallow Daybell’s defense team expressed concerns that the pool video im ages were too focused 
on their client’s face. The judge also cited his own concerns that having cameras in the 
courtroom would fuel additional publicity about the case, which he felt could complicate jury 
selection.   34. News coverage of the case was not reduced by the decision, however. Instead, 
news organizations including The AP repeatedly reused images and videos shot earlier in the 
case. News organizations also stationed their own photographers and vide ographers outside the 
courthouse to gather new images taken as Vallo w Daybell, attorneys and witnesses entered and 
left the building for various proceedings.   
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 9 
120806100.1 0080406-00001   35. The trial was moved to Ada County, and dozens of news reporters, photographers 
and videographers from around the country attended to cover the proceedings gavel-to-gavel – 
from the jury selection to the verdict. The vi sual journalists set up on the plaza outside the 
courthouse, collecting images and filming live s hots of people coming and going for weeks.  
Shortly before the court conve ned on May 12, the judge revised his order and allowed a pool 
photographer and videographer in the courtroom fo r the reading of the ve rdict. But the news 
organizations had already gathered on the courth ouse plaza that day, and of  course they had not 
anticipated the last-minute change allowing pool access.  
 36. Attached as Exhibit A  is a true and correct copy of a photograph I took outside 
the Ada County Courthouse on May 12. The photo s hows the large group of news reporters who 
had gathered to cover the trial in  the absence of pool coverage. At the center of the group is Kay 
and Larry Woodcock, the grandparents of  one of the murder victims.  
 37. The courts are a coequal, independent br anch of government, yet they receive far 
less press coverage than the legislative and exec utive branches. I have often heard members of 
the judicial branch complain that when pre ss coverage is given, it frequently focuses on the 
outcome of court actions rather than the equa lly important process of  law. Press pools help 
mitigate that challenge, providing members of th e public with a window through which they can 
directly witness the courts in action.  38. Being called to testify in criminal trials  can be particularly stressful for people 
whose lives have been directly impacted by vi olence or other crimes, which is why the Idaho 
Press Club and other journalism organizations provide trainings and other resources to help 
journalists cover sensitive or traumatic court cas es with ethical awareness, care and respect.  
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 10 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  However, the critical role of the press does not change simply because there may be emotional or 
graphic testimony during a court proceeding.   39. In 2022, I covered the rape trial of former Lewiston Rep. Aaron von Ehlinger, 
who was accused of sexually assaulting a legislat ive intern. Pool photo and video cameras were 
allowed in the courtroom throughout the von Ehlinge r trial. When the vict im in the case testified, 
Judge Reardon instructed the news  media not to make any audio or visual recordings of her 
testimony but allowed news medi a equipment to remain in th e courtroom. The news media 
abided by the restriction, de scribing Doe’s testimony and sudde n departure from the courtroom 
using text reporting and supplemen ting that coverage with phot os and videos taken of the 
attorneys and other witnesse s who testified that day.  
 40. Most news media organizations includi ng The AP have policies against disclosing 
the identity of a sexual assault survivor without the survivor ’s consent, and so would not have 
published images identifying the victim even if th ey had been allowed to record her testimony.  
 41. In 2009, I covered the Idaho rape tria l of Jeffrey Marsa lis, a Sun Valley Co. 
security guard who was accused of drugging and raping a Sun Valley Resort employee. The case 
had widespread interest across th e country, in part because Mars alis had been charged but not 
convicted of similar allegations involving multiple wo men in Pennsylvania. Pool cameras were 
allowed in the Ada County courtr oom throughout the Idaho trial, and the camera operators were 
allowed to continue recording th e events as the victim in the cas e testified on the witness stand. 
The pool camera operators did not  record visual image s of the victim, bu t did capture audio 
recordings of her testimony as well as visual recordings showing Mars alis’ reaction to her 
testimony as well as other views inside the courtroom.   
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 11 
120806100.1 0080406-00001   42. Pool videographers also  captured visual recordings  of others who provided 
emotional testimony in the Marsa lis case, including the victim’s sister, who had been deeply 
impacted by the assault and struggled with persiste nt feelings of guilt be cause she had introduced 
the defendant to her sibling.  43. Robust news coverage is particularly im portant in the case in question here. The 
court proceedings will determine not only whether Mr. Kohberger is  convicted, but whether he is 
put to death by the state, which act s on behalf of the residents of Idaho. It is my belief that the 
public deserves the fullest possi ble transparency on such a wei ghty judicial matter, and pool 
photo and video coverage helps to ensu re that government transparency.  
 I declare under penalty of perj ury under the laws of the State of Idaho that the foregoing is 
true and correct.  
DATED:  September 8, 2023. 
  
 /s/ Rebecca Boone
     
Rebecca Boone   
 
    
Declaration of Rebecca Boone in  Support of Intervenors’ O pposition to Motion to Remove 
Cameras from the Courtroom - 12 
120806100.1 0080406-00001  CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on the 8th day of Se ptember 2023, I served a true and correct 
copy of the within and foregoing upon the followi ng named parties by the me thod indicated below, 
and addressed to the following:  
Latah County Prosecutor’s Office William W. Thompson, Jr. Prosecuting Attorney Latah County Courthouse P.O. Box 8068 Moscow, ID  83843  ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email 
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 paservice@latahcounty.id.gov   
Anne Taylor Attorney at Law P.O. Box 9000 Coeur d’Alene, ID  83816  ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at ataylor@kcgov.us 
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
           pdfax@kcgov.us 
  
Jeff Nye Ingrid Batey Deputy Attorney General P.O. Box 83720 Boise, ID  83720 ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov 
      ingrid.batey@ag.idaho.gov  
        Via iCour t efile & serve at:  
  
Shanon Gray 2175 N. Mountain View Road Moscow, ID  83843     ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email 
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 shanon@graylaw.org  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law P.O. Box 1003 Payette, ID  83661 ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at emassoth@kmrs.net  
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 emassoth @kmrs.net  
               /s/ Wendy J. Olson     
      Wendy J. Olson  
                        
 
                
EXHIBIT A 