 
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 1 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  Wendy J. Olson, Bar No. 7634 
wendy.olson@stoel.com 
Cory M. Carone, Bar No. 11422 
cory.carone@stoel.com 
STOEL RIVES LLP 
101 S. Capitol Boulevard, Suite 1900 
Boise, ID  83702 
Telephone:  208.389.9000 
Facsimile:  208.389.9040 
Attorneys for Intervenors 
  
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SE COND JUDICIAL DI STRICT OF THE 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH 
STATE OF IDAHO, 
Plaintiff, 
v. 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER, 
Defendant. Case No. CR29-22-2805 
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to 
Remove Cameras from the Courtroom 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; RADIO 
TELEVISION DIGITAL NEWS 
ASSOCIATION; SINCLAIR MEDIA OF 
BOISE, LLC/KBOI-TV (BOISE); STATES 
NEWSROOM DBA IDAHO CAPITAL SUN; 
TEGNA INC./KREM (SPOKANE), KTVB 
(BOISE) AND KING (SEATTLE); 
EASTIDAHONEWS.COM; THE LEWISTON 
TRIBUNE; WASHINGTON STATE 
ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS; 
IDAHO PRESS CLUB; IDAHO EDUCATION 
NEWS; KXLY-TV/4 NEWS NOW AND 
KAPP/KVEW-TV—MORGAN MURPHY 
MEDIA KXLY-TV/4 NEWS NOW; SCRIPPS 
MEDIA, INC., DBA KIVI-TV, A DELAWARE 
CORPORATION; THE SPOKESMAN- Electronically Filed
9/8/2023 2:36 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy Clerk 
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 2 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  REVIEW/COWLES COMPANY; THE NEW 
YORK TIMES COMPANY; LAWNEWZ, INC.; ABC, INC.; WP COMPANY LLC, DBA THE WASHINGTON POST; SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS; THE MCCLATCHY COMPANY, LLC; THE SEATTLE TIMES; and CNN,  
Intervenors. 
 
Intervenors have faithfully foll owed the Court’s instructions  at the June 27, 2023, hearing 
to not focus exclusively on Mr. Ko hberger during audio/visual cove rage of these proceedings. The 
examples provided by Mr. Kohberg er in his motion are not repr esentative of actual media 
coverage, thus the premise of his motion fails. Moreover, cont inuing to allow audio/visual 
coverage of the proceedings is the only way to ensure that the many comm unity members affected 
by these crimes throughout the University of Ida ho, Moscow, the State of Idaho, and the cities in 
which the victims’ family member s reside have an opportunity to see and hear the proceedings for 
themselves. Intervenors have si gnificant experience covering high- profile court cases and will 
continue to adhere to guidelines set by the C ourt. The Motion to Remove  Cameras from Courtroom 
should be denied.  
BACKGROUND 
 In June of this year, at the Court’s request, th e parties and Intervenors1 submitted briefing 
regarding audio/visual coverage of these proceedings. Intervenors urged the Court to exercise its 
discretion under Idaho Cour t Administrative Rule 45 to author ize “audio/visual coverage” of the 
 
1 The following media outlets and entities are part  of this Intervenor group: The Associated 
Press; The McClatchy Company; Scripps Medi a, Inc.; Radio Television Digital News 
Association; KXLY-TV/4 News Now and KAPP/ KVEW-TV—Morgan Murphy Media KXLY-
TV/4 News Now; LawNewz, Inc.; Tegna Inc./K rem (Spokane); Washington State Association of 
Broadcasters; The Spokesman-Review/Cowles Co mpany; ABC, Inc.; Society of Professional 
Journalists; the Idaho Press Club; CNN;  NBCUniversal News Group, a division of 
NBCUniversal Media, LLC; KBOI; East Id aho News; and the Le wiston Tribune.    
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 3 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  proceedings, subject to carefully crafted rules de signed to protect the State’s and Mr. Kohberger’s 
constitutional interests, the privacy  concerns of jurors and trial pa rticipants, and the dignity of the 
courtroom. Mr. Kohberger, and the State to a lesser extent, urged the Court not to allow cameras 
in the courtroom.  During a June 9, 2023, hearing, the Court heard argument from the partie s and Intervenors, 
and observed that it had generally allowed cameras  in the courtroom duri ng both magistrate and 
district court proceedings. On June 23, 2023, th e Court entered an or der reserving ruling on 
whether to allow cameras in the courtroom. It stated:  
The Court is faced with the difficult task of ensuring the proceedings are open to 
the public while also safeguarding Kohberger’s  right to a fair trial. The best way 
to continue to balance those interests is  to revisit the issue of cameras in the 
courtroom as the case unfold s. This Court has the disc retion to either allow or 
disallow video recordings of the proceed ings. For now, cameras in the courtroom 
will continue to be allowed. However, that is subject to change by further order of this Court. 
Order Reserving Ruling on the Issue of  Cameras in the Courtroom at 2.  
 At the outset of a hearing on June 27, 2023, th e Court instructed still photographers and 
video camera operators not to focu s strictly on Mr. Kohberger if th ey wished to remain in the 
courtroom. Intervenors and other long-time media outlets have foll owed the Court’s instructions. 
Mr. Kohberger, citing a small samp le of unrepresentative still phot ographs, social media posts by 
persons who are not journalists or  Intervenors in this case, and two out-of-context images from a 
video that plainly show wide cam era shots, nonetheless asks the C ourt to go against its standard 
practice and remove cameras from  the courtroom. And the State now  urges the Court not to allow 
audio/visual coverage at Mr . Kohberger’s trial, which is likely many months away. 
ARGUMENT 
This Court should continue to ex ercise its discretion to allow a udio/visual coverage of these 
proceedings, including at trial. At all times, Intervenors and ot her long-time media outlets have  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 4 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  followed the Court’s direction not to focus exclusively on Mr. Kohberger. Mr. Kohberger 
nonetheless asserts that cameras should be remove d because, according to hi m: (1) their operators 
failed to comply with th e Court’s June 27 instruction because so me pictures of just Mr. Kohberger 
continue to be printed in various publicati ons (Motion to Remove Cameras from Courtroom 
(“Motion”) at 2); (2) some publ ications use these photographs with sensationa l headlines ( id.); (3) 
these images provide fodder for non- journalist social media accounts ( id. at 3); and (4) some 
camera operators have focused in on papers, do cuments, or notes locat ed on or around defense 
counsel table ( id. at 5-6). Mr. Kohberger’s factual assertio ns should be rejected, as his examples 
are not representative of Intervenors’ audio/visu al coverage of these pr oceedings. And his legal 
analysis of the underlying constitu tional issues is flawed because the primary case he relies on, 
Estes v. State of Texas , 381 U.S. 532, 535 (1965), focused on the number of cameras and the 
obtrusiveness of cameras in the courtroom, which are antiquated concerns over 50 years later when 
cameras are smaller, and footag e can be pooled. In short, Mr. Kohberger’s arguments fail both 
factually and legally. His Motion should be denied. 
1. Estes v. State of Texas  Does Not Support Removi ng Cameras from the 
Courtroom. 
 In Estes , the U.S. Supreme Court was concerned a bout the impact the number of cameras 
and obtrusiveness of camera equipment had on the proceedings. 381 U.S. at 536. At times, there were 12 camera operators in the courtroom with larg e, noisy equipment that required cables strewn 
throughout the courtroom. Id. The Supreme Court concluded that the camera coverage so 
distracted trial participants  as to deprive Mr. Estes of a fair trial and reversed his conviction. Here, 
nearly sixty years later, the media presence insi de the courtroom is neit her as numerous nor as 
physically imposing. Intervenors and other long -time media outlets use pool photographers and 
video camera operators, thereby limiting the number of cameras in the courtroom and sharing the  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 5 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  images. Declaration of Rebecca Boone (“Boone Decl .”), ¶¶ 8-16, 20-29. In addition, the camera 
equipment is dramatically  smaller and quieter than  it was in 1964 during the Estes  trial. I d. at ¶ 15. 
Camera operators and their equipment are set up we ll in advance of any hear ing, rather than being 
carried in and out during the trial. This allows the cameras and operators to become just another piece of furniture, disappearing into the background. Id. Finally, Mr. Este s’s conviction was 
overturned because the Supreme Court found the cam era operators conduct was distracting for the 
people inside the courtroom , not because the coverage  was receiving attention outside of the 
courtroom , which is Mr. Kohberger’s ar gument here. Motion at 3-4.  
The Supreme Court recogni zed the limitations of Estes  in Chandler v. Florida , 449 U.S. 
560 (1980). In Chandler , the Supreme Court noted that Estes  did not announce a constitutional 
rule that all photographic and television coverage of criminal trials is inhe rently a denial of due 
process, id. at 570-73, and it did not stand as an absolute ban on state court’s experimentation with 
an evolving technology, which, in terms of modes of  mass communication, was in its relative 
infancy in 1964 when Estes  was decided, id. at 573-74. Cameras and technology have evolved 
even further in the 43 years since Chandler  was decided. 
2. Courtroom Camera Coverage Has Not Focused Exclusively on Mr. Kohberger 
and Has Been Fair and Balanced. 
 The pool photographers and cam era operators in the courtr oom for the June 27, 2023, and 
subsequent hearings have followed the Court’s instructions not to focus exclusively on Mr. 
Kohberger and to show wide shots of the courtr oom. For example, Court TV’s coverage of the 
August 18, 2023, hearing in this case showed a wide a ngle of the courtroom, focused on the expert 
called by the defendant when he testified, and occasi onally filmed closeups of various participants,  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 6 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  including the Court and Mr. Kohberger.2 Declaration of Grace Wong (“Wong Decl.”), ¶¶ 25-26. 
An Idaho Statesman story about the hearing included a photograph of the expert, as well as 
photographs of Mr. Kohberger an d one of his attorneys and of  Latah County Prosecutor Bill 
Thompson. Declaration of Wendy J. Olson, ¶ 2, E xhibit 1. Similarly, a KTVB story covering the 
August 23, 2023, hearing showed a variety of camera s hots, including: (a) a br oad shot that showed 
the entire courtroom, bot h counsel tables and the bench; (b) a closeup of the judge; (c) a slightly 
zoomed in shot of Mr. Kohberger and his counsel in which the zoom  feed also could be seen; (d) 
still shots of the victims; and (e) an interview of a legal analyst.3  
ABC News/Good Morning America coverage in August included a variety of shots of the 
courtroom and the defendant with still photographs and stock footag e of earlier developments in 
the case. The coverage also pr ovided balanced coverage of the State’s and Mr. Kohberger’s 
positions on the motion before the Court. These stories did not focus exclusively on footage or 
closeups of Mr. Kohberger.4 ABC News has consistently show n a variety of photographic images 
and footage and provided balanced coverage  of the matters addressed in Court. 5  
 
2  The coverage can be viewed at https://we.tl/t-2V2zpgvo4b . 
 
3 The coverage can be viewed at https://www.ktvb.com/video/new s/special-reports/moscow-
murders/idaho-murder-suspect -bryan-kohberger-waives-righ t-to-speedy-trial/277-6d5bd2f3-
3be6-44b0-8200-c2dd5770a4e2 . 
4 The coverage can be viewed at https://twitter.com/GMA/status/1694677364947456411  and 
https://www.goodmorningamerica.com/News/video/ defense-requests-pause-accused-idaho-
killer-bryan-kohberger-102391530 . 
5 The coverage can be viewed at https://abcnews.go.com/US/idaho- college-killings-suspect-first-
arrested-2014-record s-show/story?id=100394285  (print piece does not focus exclusively on Mr. 
Kohberger) and https://twitter.com/GMA/status/1650827652222320648  (Apr. 25, 2023, Good 
Morning America package on  surviving roommate subpoena in which video edits largely use wide 
shots of courtroom, demonstrate discretion with visuals of defense counsel table and in which 
language used in track demonstrat es straightforward, fair, and ba lanced approach to potential 
“exculpatory evidence”).  
  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 7 
120799598.2 0080406-00001   Although video camera operators have done thei r best to capture th e full courtroom and 
not focus exclusively on Mr. Kohbe rger when they zoom in to provide focus on who is speaking, 
the courtroom has natural limitations. It is not  a football field. But even the screenshots and 
photographs in Mr. Kohberger’s Mo tion show that the video jour nalists were endeavoring to 
include as much of a wide shot as possible. They show both the subject of the trial and the projector 
screen showing the judge and the courtroom galle ry. Motion at 6. And Mr. Kohberger’s Motion is 
inaccurate when it argues that the pool cameras ha ve scrutinized defense counsel table. Motion at 
5-6. Only one of the photographs in Mr. Kohberg er’s Motion even shows a full view of defense 
counsel table with so me papers on it. Id. at 6. The print, if any, on th e papers is not viewable, nor 
are the papers the focus of the shot. Id. The image simply shows the personnel at defense counsel 
table without any effort to zoom in or scrutini ze the documents on defens e counsel table. Nor does 
any of the media coverage referr ed to above show the content or  substance of any materials on 
defense counsel table. That is simply not accurate. 
 To be certain, some editors choose to prin t photographs of Mr. Kohberger to accompany 
stories their reporters write about the proceedings in this case. But that is the decision of persons 
outside of the courtroom and not the result of st ill photographers and video camera operators inside 
the courtroom focusing exclusively on Mr. Kohbe rger. The 18 still photog raphs posted by the pool 
photographer from the Lewiston Tribune from the A ugust 18 hearing included a variety of images 
of the hearing participants, incl uding all counsel, Mr. Kohberger, th e Court and court reporter, and 
various witnesses. Boone Decl., ¶¶ 17, 18, 22. That news editors us ed photographs of Mr. 
Kohberger alone or of Mr. Kohberger and others do es not mean that the cameras in the courtroom 
focused only or primarily on Mr . Kohberger. And media outlets could continue to make the  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 8 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  editorial choice to depict Mr. Kohberger with th eir stories on the case using stock photographs 
from earlier proceedings even if cam eras are not in the courtroom. 
 Finally, neither the Court nor Intervenors can control the soci al media users who take the 
still photographers’ and video ca mera operators’ images and post them online with unflattering 
content. That appears to be wh at happened in the social medi a image Mr. Kohberger included on 
page 3 of his Motion. Mr. Kohberger argued that he is “entitled to defend himself against capital 
charges without cameras focused on his fly” (Mot ion at 5), but no photogra phs or camera coverage 
focused on Mr. Kohberger’s “fly.” Rather, one random X user (formerl y Twitter) modified a 
photograph showing Mr. Kohberger and a deputy en tering the courtroom by cropping it to a very 
small size, focused on his belt, and addi ng a reference to Mr. Kohberger’s fly. Id. at 3. Even the 
cropped photograph does not focus on Mr. Kohberger’s fly, howev er. And Intervenors and the 
members of the public who are interested in but una ble to attend these proceedings should not have 
their access to live court proceed ing curtailed simply because of social media posts made by one 
or a few unknown and una ffiliated individuals. 
Intervenors seek to continue their principled courtroom cove rage of Mr. Kohberger’s case, 
complete with first-hand visual accounts, and to continue using the editorial judgment their 
organizations have used responsibly acco rding to high journalistic standards. 
 4. Removing Cameras from the Courtr oom Would Have Negative Impacts. 
 Removing cameras from the courtr oom would have at least thr ee negative impacts. First, 
it would force more news organiza tions to travel to Moscow to set up cameras outside of the 
courtroom, creating a much more vi sible media presence for the case just as it did in the trial of 
Lori Vallow Daybell in Boise. Boone Decl., ¶¶ 30- 36, Exhibit A. At Ms. Daybell’s trial, cameras 
were not allowed in the courtr oom, and instead numerous media outlets sent th eir own still  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 9 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  photographers and camera operators  to set up outside the courtroo m to do stand-up shots with 
reporters who had been in the courtroom for va rious proceedings and to capture various trial 
participants going to and from the courtroom. Id. at ¶¶ 35-36, Exhibit A.  
Second, removing cameras from the courtroom  will not impede or diminish media 
coverage of Mr. Kohberger’s case, but it will lead to a significantly less accurate portrayal of the 
justice process. Id. at ¶¶ 20, 37. It will allow the pot-stirrers on social me dia platforms to promote 
their made-up claims with no video coverage that can  be used to dispute them  with the truth of the 
proceedings. The social media coverage will inevitably turn further away from fact, if cameras are banned, and turn to rampan t speculation to fill the void. Allowi ng cameras in court is an essential 
step in controlling the flow of accurate information. 
Third, removing cameras from the courtroom would make this case of significant public 
interest less accessible to the co mmunity members and family members who suffered trauma as a 
result of the November killings, and seek closur e and healing. It would de prive the public of the 
opportunity to observe first-hand how the criminal ju stice system is working in this case. Public 
oversight provides “significant co mmunity therapeutic value,” including an “outlet for community 
concern, hostility and emotion.” See Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v. Virginia , 448 U.S. 555, 572-
73 (1980) (camera access pe rmits the press to report fully on judicial proceedings, serving as a 
surrogate for the public , most of whom cannot  attend personally). 
In addition, polls show increas ing support for cameras in the courtroom, including at the 
U.S. Supreme Court. A C-SPAN/Pierrepont poll f ound that 70% of voters agree that allowing 
television coverage of Supreme Court proceedings would build trust in the Court’s process and the 
rulings it makes. C-SPAN, C-SPAN/Pierrepon t Supreme Court Survey 2022 (Mar. 15, 2022),  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 10 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  https://www.c-span.org/scotussurvey2022/ . More and more courts are enacting rules allowing 
cameras in the courtroom. 
In 2018, the Georgia Supreme Court approved a rule allowing cameras in the courtroom 
and clarified the limited circ umstances under which the court can prohibit visual and audio 
recordings. Supreme Court of Georgia (Feb. 6, 2018), https://www.gasupreme.us/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/US CR_22_Order-FINAL_Feb-6.pdf . The Georgia Supreme Court’s 
press release announcing the rule underscored the importance  of video coverage of court 
proceedings in promoting the integrity of the judi cial system: “As the new rule underscores at the 
outset, ‘Open courtrooms are an indispensable element of an effective and respected judicial 
system.’ The rule recognizes that a balance must  be struck in the use of recording devices in 
courtrooms: ‘It is the po licy of Georgia’s courts  to promote access to and understanding of court 
proceedings not only by the participan ts in them but also by the ge neral public and by news media 
who will report on the proceedings to the public. This must be done, however, while protecting 
the legal rights of the participants in the pr oceedings and ensuring appropriate security and 
decorum.’” Supreme Court of Georgia, New Ru le Approved for Use of Recording Devices in 
Courtrooms (Feb. 6, 2018), https://www.gasuprem e.us/new-rule-22/ . Washington State has long 
had general rules allowing cameras in the cour troom during court proceed ings. Washington State 
Court Rules, GR 16. And although Minnesota state co urts ordinarily did not allow cameras in the 
courtroom, the presiding judge in the Derek Chauvin trial allo wed cameras in light of the 
pandemic, and after the successful public trial,  the Minnesota Supreme Court subsequently 
changed its rules to expand camera acce ss in the future. Wong Decl., ¶¶ 5-9. 
 Intervenors such as CNN and Court TV ha ve experience televisi ng high-publicity, high-
stakes trials, and doing so in the least intrusive manner possible. Id. at ¶¶ 3-4, 10-24. Significantly,  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 11 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  not all of these trials have resu lted in conviction of the defenda nt, despite the live coverage and 
extensive publicity. Id. at ¶¶ 11-22. Court TV, and other Interv enor media outlets, seek to follow 
guidelines set by the Court and to ensure that  live coverage complies with Idaho Court 
Administrative Rule 45 and othe r concerns of the Court. Id. at ¶¶ 2, 27-28. 
 Finally, this Court, for now, should deny or reserve ruling on the State’s suggestion in its 
responsive pleading that the Cour t should not allow audio/visual coverage of the courtroom. 
Intervenors well understand the State’ s concern for the well-being of witnesses, particularly in a 
case such as this one that has had a dramatic impact on the univ ersity community from which many 
of the witnesses will be drawn. But it is not the news coverage of court proceedings that has caused 
witnesses to be threatened or harassed, just as the decision to arrest a suspect or to prosecute Mr. Kohberger have not caused witnesses to be threat ened or harassed. And Inte rvenors trust that the 
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney will properly  address any such thre ats or harassment.  
Other Idaho courts have allowed audio/visual coverage of trials with sensitive witnesses, 
and, when the Court has so instructed, the a udio/visual journalists  have followed Court 
guidelines not to film that witness. Boone Decl ., ¶¶ 38-42. For example, during the rape trial of 
former Lewiston Rep. Aaron von Ehlinger, photogra ph and video cameras were allowed in the 
courtroom, and camera operators followed the ju dge’s instructions not to record the victim’s 
testimony. Id. at ¶ 39. The young woman had been subjected to extensive and sustained 
harassment and threats by von Ehlin ger’s supporters. In the rape tr ial of Jeffrey Marsalis, camera 
operators were allowed to record  audio of the victim’s testimony and visuals of other people in 
the courtroom reacting to that  testimony, including Marsalis. Id., at ¶¶ 41-42.   
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 12 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  In addition, cameras were allowed in the c ourtroom when family members of victims – 
including their young siblings – testified in the Florida case of Nikolas Cruz, who was convicted 
of killing 17 people in a shooting at Marjory Stoneman  Douglas High School in 2018.6  
 Indeed, Idaho Court Administrative Rule 45( d) contemplates preci sely this kind of 
coverage of particularly sensitive po rtions of a trial.  It provides:  
  The presiding judge may exclude audi o/visual coverage of a particular  
 participant or direct that  the identify or audio of a participant be concealed upon 
 a determination that such coverage will have a substa ntial adverse effect upon a 
 particular individual. It is expected the presiding judge will ex ercise particular  
 sensitivity to victims of crime. 
Just as Intervenors have followed the Court’ s instruction not to focus exclusively on Mr. 
Kohberger, they will follow the C ourt’s instruction regarding any pa rticular witness. Intervenors 
are eager to work with the C ourt and counsel to ensure c ontinued public viewing of the 
proceedings while taking into account the Cour t’s and counsel’s concerns. Intervenors’ prior 
experience covering high-profile criminal trials has made them well aware of the need for an 
ongoing dialogue and adjustments to coverage base d on concerns such as the privacy rights of 
individual witnesses. They seek to remain part of th at ongoing dialogue as they have been in 
courthouses across the country. Cert ainly, at this juncture of the proceedings, there is no basis to 
preclude audio/visual coverage of the tr ial, which is likely many months away. 
  
 
6 Coverage of this witnes s testimony can be found at https://apnews.com/article/entertainment-
sports-education-movies-f lorida-9d87c439c291633716fe08246cd7b618 . 
https://apnews.com/article/edu cation-florida-fort-lauderdale- parkland-school-shooting-nikolas-
cruz-07073f4057a46630d09ccba695ff340a  
https://apnews.com/article/sports-shoo tings-education-florida-fort-lauderdale-
bbb4f1f0317413afbe14a51e90fcdf17  
  
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 13 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  CONCLUSION 
For the reasons set forth above , this Court should deny th e Motion to Remove Cameras 
from Courtroom and at this poin t deny the State’s suggestion th at the Court should not allow 
audio/visual coverage of the trial. 
 
DATED:  September 8, 2023. 
 STOEL RIVES LLP 
 
  
/s/ Wendy J. Olson      
Wendy J. Olson 
Cory M. Carone 
Attorneys for Intervenors 
 
    
Intervenors’ Opposition to Motion to Remove Cameras from the Courtroom - 14 
120799598.2 0080406-00001  CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on the 8th day of Se ptember 2023, I served a true and correct 
copy of the within and foregoing upon the followi ng named parties by the me thod indicated below, 
and addressed to the following:  
Latah County Prosecutor’s Office William W. Thompson, Jr. Prosecuting Attorney Latah County Courthouse P.O. Box 8068 Moscow, ID  83843  ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email 
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 paservice@latahcountyid.gov   
Anne Taylor Attorney at Law P.O. Box 9000 Coeur d’Alene, ID  83816  ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at ataylor@kcgov.us 
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
           pdfax@kcgov.us 
  
Jeff Nye Ingrid Batey Deputy Attorney General P.O. Box 83720 Boise, ID  83720 ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at jeff.nye@ag.idaho.gov 
      ingrid.batey@ag.idaho.gov  
        Via iCour t efile & serve at:  
  
Shanon Gray 2175 N. Mountain View Road Moscow, ID  83843     ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail         Via email 
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 shanon@graylaw.org  
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC 
Attorney at Law P.O. Box 1003 Payette, ID  83661 ___  Hand Delivered 
___  Via Facsimile  ___  U.S. Mail   X   Via email at emassoth@kmrs.net  
  X   Via iCourt efile & serve at:  
 emassoth @kmrs.net  
                /s/ Wendy J. Olson     
      Wendy J. Olson  