REPLY TO INTERVENORS’ OPPOSITION TO MOTION  
TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE COURTROOM     Page 1 Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender 
Kootenai County Public Defender 
PO Box 9000 
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho 83816 
Phone: (208) 446- 1700; Fax: (208) 446- 1701 
Bar Number: 5836 
iCourt Email: pdfax@kcgov.us  
 
Elisa G. Massoth, PLLC  
Attorney at Law  
P.O. Box 1003 
Payette, ID 83661  
208-642-3797 
 
Assigned Attorney:  
Anne C. Taylor, Public Defender, Bar Number: 5836 
Jay Weston Logsdon, Chief Deputy Litigation, Bar Number: 8759 
Elisa G. Massoth, Bar Number: 5647 
 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND  JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE  
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH  
 
 
CASE NUMBER CR29 -22-2805 
 
 
REPLY TO INTERVENORS’ 
OPPOSITION TO MOTION TO 
REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE 
COURTROOM  
 
 
 
Comes Now, Bryan C. Kohberger, through his attorneys of record and submits the 
following Reply to the Intervenors’ Opposition to his previously filed request to remove cameras 
from the courtroom. 
Understandably, the Media’s Opposition cloaks itself in the mantle of public good, 
purveyors of the inner workings of our government.  Were it only the kind of cameras used to show 
the workings on the house floor on C -SPAN, Mr. Kohberger would not have needed make his STATE OF IDAHO  
 
                                   Plaintiff,  
 
V. 
 
BRYAN C. KOHBERGER,  
 
                                   Defendant.  Electronically Filed
9/12/2023 1:20 PM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkREPLY TO INTERVENORS’ OPPOSITION TO MOTION  
TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE COURTROOM     Page  2 request.  The  Media wants to make money, and it does so by making a spectacle of Mr. Kohberger 
and everyone involved in this case.  In pursuit of its desires, the Media makes two basic, and 
incorrect, arguments.  
I. Estes v. Texas  Was Not Limited to Concerns About the I mpact the Number of 
Cameras and Obtrusiveness of Camera Equipment Had and the Proceedings, and
 Chandler v. Florida  Mandates Expulsion of Cameras from the Courtroom  
With regard to the first of Intervenors’ arguments, the characterization of  Estes v. Texas , 381 
U.S. 532 (1965), as being concerned only with the disruptions posed by the logistic al implications of 
a courtroom filled with press observers is a partial reading of the case . Media’s Brief at 4.  Indeed, it 
appears the Media simply stopped reading hal fway through page 536 of the opinion.   The rest of the 
opinion goes on to consider the larger issues at stake:  
The television camera is a powerful weapon. Intentionally or inadvertently it can 
destroy an accused and his case in the eyes of the public. While our telecasters are 
honorable men, they too are human. The necessity for sponsorship weighs heavily in 
favor of the televising of only notorious cases, such as this one, and invariably 
focuses the lens upon the unpopular or infamous  accused. Such a selection is 
necessary in order to obtain a sponsor willing to pay a sufficient fee to cover the 
costs and return a profit. We have already examined the ways in which public 
sentiment can affect the trial participants.  To the extent that television shapes that 
sentiment, it can strip the accused of a fair trial.  
 
Id., 381 U.S. at 549- 50.  
Intervenors argue that the  Estes Court “concluded that the camera coverage so distracted  trial 
participants  as to deprive Mr. Estes of a fair trial and reversed his conviction,” and that “Mr. Estes’ s 
conviction was overturned because the Supreme Court found the camera operators conduct was 
distracting for the people inside the  courtroom , not because the coverage was receiving 
attention  outside of the courtroom.”  Media’s Brief at  5 (emphasis in the or iginal). This argument, again, is 
flatly contrary to the  Estes  holding, which was expressly extended to pretrial coverage and was 
additionally concerned with what each juror would carry “with him into the jury box” as a result of REPLY TO INTERVENORS’ OPPOSITION TO MOTION  
TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE COURTROOM     Page  3 their exposure to prejudic ial publicity prior their becoming “trial participants,” to use the 
Intervenor’s categorization.  See Id.,  381 U.S. at 545.  
Indeed, the precedential support chosen by the Media for their interpretation of 
the Estes  holding  Chandler v. Florida,  449 U.S. 560 (1980) , has to do with whether there’s 
constitutional rule against coverage . Media’s Brief at  5.  It would be rather odd for Chandler  to worry 
about coverage if Estes  was a case  about too many wires in a courtroom as the Media claimed.  In 
any case, Mr. K ohberger asks for no such per se  rule. To the contrary, the prior Motion cited those 
factors now ignored by the Intervenors’ flawed interpretation of the  Estes  decision, namely the 
extraordinary publicity of the present case and ensuing risk to Mr. Kohberg er’s right to a fair trial.  
That argument is entirely consistent with  Chandler ’s focus on Justice Harlan’s concurring 
opinion in Estes,  which it deemed to be “fundamental to an understanding of the ultimate holding” 
of that case.  Chandler,  449 U.S. at 571. In particular, the  Chandler  Court emphasized Justice Harlan’s 
“conclusion that there is no constitutional requirement that television be allowed in the 
courtroom,  and, at least as to a notorious criminal trial such as this one, the conside rations against allowing 
televisions in the courtroom so far outweigh the countervailing factors advanced in its support as to require a holding 
that what was done in this case infringed the fundamental right to a fair trial asured by the Due Process Claus e 
of the Fourteenth Amendment.”  Id. (quoting  Estes,  381 U.S. at 387 (Harlan, J., concurring) 
(emphasis in the original)).  
The Chandler  decision is substantially based on Justice Harlan’s  Estes  concurrence and it’s 
assertion that disallowance of cameras fr om the courtroom is to be decided on a case -by-case basis, 
with extraordinarily notorious trials presenting a particular danger to a defendant’s fair trial right and, resultantly, a greater need for judicial safeguards, such as those requested in the prior  Motion.  
Chandler , 449 US at 573- 74. Mr. Kohberger’s case is not one concerning alleged burglary and larceny, 
as was  Chandler.  Given the sheer extent of the publicity, the gravity of the charges and real risk to REPLY TO INTERVENORS’ OPPOSITION TO MOTION  
TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE COURTROOM     Page  4 Mr. Kohberger’s life, this case is not one s uited for “experimentation with evolving an evolving 
technology,” but rather demands strict measures necessary to safeguard his right to a fair trial.   
II. Intervenors Misrepresent Their Compliance With the Court’s Order and Fail To 
Demonstrate the Viabili ty of Alternative Remedies  
Admitting that press observers have violated the terms of the Court’s prior Order, 
Intervenors nonetheless contend that because their observation and coverage is occasionally non-violative, defense counsel’s concerns are unjustif ied. Media’s Brief at 7.   And w hile the sample 
provided in Mr. Kohberger’s Motion admittedly “shows a full view of defense counsel table,” Intervenors argue, “[t]he image simply shows the personnel at defense counsel table without any effort to zoom in or scrutinize the documents.”   
First, it seems relatively obvious that the easiest way to fix the counsel table  issue is to move 
the cameras.  There is simply no reason the cameras need to be placed so they have a clear view of counsel’s laptop screens and notes.  Mr. Kohberger is not required to accept promises that no one is 
going to zoom in on the contents, or capture them at a high enough resolution that someone else can zoom in on it once it has been posted online.  Various examples of this occurring exi st, the 
focus on Mr. Kohberger’s fly being one.  
Second, the Media’s (and social media users’) behavior is likely as uncontrollable outside the 
courtroom as they admit . See Media’s Brief at 7, Boone Declaration at 8.   As they say, even without 
cameras, they will simply go on using old images.  Id.  Yet the Media prefers new images because 
human beings crave novelty.  The Media knows the outlet with the latest scoop wins.  The social media users constantly post any new i nformation they get about this case.  Images from court are no 
different.   Thus, to say there would be no effect would be inaccurate.  A reduction to the novelty of 
images would have the beneficial effect of focusing the public on the facts of the case.   Moreover, REPLY TO INTERVENORS’ OPPOSITION TO MOTION  
TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE COURTROOM     Page  5 federal courts do not permit cameras, yet the public remains well acquainted the facts of many 
federal cases.  
These proceedings are not  entertainment. “[T]he chief function of our judicial machinery is 
to ascertain the truth. The use of television, however, cannot be said to contribute materially to this objective. Rather its use amounts to the injection of an irrelevant factor into court proceedings. In addition experience teaches that there are numerous situations in which it might cause actual unfairness —some so subtle as to defy detection by the accused or control by the judge.”  Estes,  381 
U.S. at 544- 45.  
The accepted benefit, as Intervenors note, of unfettered press access is the provision to the 
public “of the opportunity to observe first -hand how the criminal justice system is working in this 
case” and the ability to observe each step of Mr. Kohberger’s prosecution. Media’s Brief at  9. Yet 
implementation of the requested restriction is not as draconian as Intervenors seek to portray. The remo val of cameras from the courtroom does not render this case closed to affected community 
members and the public. Indeed, those most affected due to interrelation with and physical proximity to the community would remain able to observe proceedings in person, and would therefore be those least affected by the requested limitation. Moreover, the accused’s rig ht to a fair 
trial is “paramount.”  Chandler,  449 U.S. at 566.  Mr. Kohberger asks this Court to protect it.  
DATED this ___ 12____ day of September , 2023.  
 
ANNE C. TAYLOR, PUBLIC DEFENDER  
KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER   
 
      BY:   
       JAY WESTON LOGSDON 
       CHIEF DEPUTY LITIGATION  
       ASSIGNED ATTORNEY  
 
REPLY TO INTERVENORS’ OPPOSITION TO MOTION  
TO REMOVE CAMERAS FROM THE COURTROOM     Page  6  
 
CERTIFICATE O F DELIVERY  
 
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was personally served as 
indicated below on the ___12____ day  of September , 2023 addressed to: 
 
 
Wendy Olson – via email: wendy.olson@stoel.c om  
Latah County Prosecuting Attorney –via Email: paservice@latahcountyid.gov  
Elisa Massoth – via Email: legalassistant@kmrs.net  
      
       
 
 
