WILLIAM W. THOMPSON, JR., ISB 2613 
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY 
ASHLEY JENNINGS, ISB 8491 
SR. DEPUTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY 
Latah County Courthouse 
P.O. Box 8068 
Moscow, ID 83 843 
Phone: (208) 883-2246 
paservice@latah.id. us 
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE 
STATE OF IDAHO, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF LATAH 
STATE OF IDAHO, 
Plaintiff, 
V. 
BRYANC.KOHBERGER 
Defendant. Case No. CR29-22-2805 
MOTION FOR SCHEDULING 
ORDER 
COMES NOW the State ofldaho, by and through the Latah County Prosecuting 
Attorney, and respectfully moves the Court for a Scheduling Order addressing, without 
limitation, the following: 
1) Scheduling a jury trial to run for approximately six (6) weeks (including penalty 
phase). The State proposes that the Court schedule trial for the summer of 2024, and that the trial 
dates avoid times when Moscow High School and our area universities are in session. As the 
Court is aware, Moscow High School is directly adjacent to the courthouse premises and already 
the significantly increased amount of media and other vehicles related to this case has strained 
available parking as well as safety and convenience for pedestrians, including students. The 
MOTION FOR SCHEDULING ORDER 1 Electronically Filed
12/21/2023 10:17 AM
Second Judicial District, Latah County
Julie Fry, Clerk of the Court
By: Tamzen Reeves, Deputy ClerkCourt is also aware that when the local universities are in session, it is not infrequent for area 
lodging to become unavailable due to university-related activities such as sporting events, 
graduation, etc. 
The State also requests that the Court set a daily trial schedule of 8:30 a.m. to 
approximately 3:00 p.m .. For a trial of this length, it is appropriate to afford jurors some amount 
of time to tend to their personal affairs. Additionally, having more time in the afternoon allows 
for better preparation by the parties and allows for reasonable opportunities and time for the 
Court and counsel to address any motions or other matters that routinely arise during the course 
of jury trials. In the State's experience, this type of daily trial schedule is typically appreciated 
by jurors as well as Court staff and counsel. 
2) 
3) 
and (c)(4). 
4) Deadlines for completion of discovery for both the State and Defense. 
Deadlines for both parties to make expert disclosures pursuant to I.C.R. 16(b )(7) 
Deadlines for filings of pretrial motions and responses and replies thereto, 
including, but not limited to, motions in limine, motions relating to the death penalty, and any 
motions under I.C.R. 12(b). 
5) Deadlines for jury questionnaire proposals. 
6) Deadlines for proposed jury instructions. 
7) Deadlines for proposed witnesses pursuant to I.C.R. 16(b)(6) and (c)(3). 
8) Deadlines for Rule 404(b) notices. 
9) Dates for pretrial motions to be heard. 
10) Any other matters to facilitate the orderly progress of this case toward trial. 
· The State notes that in this Court's August 22, 2023, Scheduling Order, the Court set a 
MOTION FOR SCHEDULING ORDER 2 date certain for "sentencing disclosures, including witnesses, exhibits, expert reports, and any 
other evidence." The State requests that the Court allow the parties further opportunity to 
supplement their disclosures following receipt and review of the opposing party's initial 
disclosures. 
The Court's August 22, 2023, Scheduling Order also directed the submission of trial 
exhibits and names of witnesses. The State again requests that the Court afford the parties the 
opportunity to supplement those responses after they have had the opportunity to review and 
consider the initial submissions of the other party. 
In its August 22, 2023, Scheduling Order, the Court afforded the Defendant an additional 
opportunity to provide notice of alibi in accordance with court rule and statute. The State 
submits that the Defendant has already been afforded this opportunity and the Court heard 
argument on the motions relating to such. The State submits the opportunity for the Defendant to 
disclose an alibi and notify the State of the same has passed and asks that the Court not reopen 
this issue. 
If it would help in identifying dates and scheduling, the State would recommend that the 
Court schedule a Status Conference, on the record, for the purpose of scheduling. 
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED this ?ic;tday of December, 2023. 
Sr. Deputy Prosecuting Attorney 
MOTION FOR SCHEDULING ORDER 3 CERTIFICATE OF DELIVERY 
I hereby certify that true and correct copies of the MOTION FOR SCHEDULING ORDER 
were served on the following in the manner indicated below: 
Anne Taylor 
Attorney at Law 
PO Box 9000 
Coeur D Alene, ID 83 816-9000 □ Mailed 
X E-filed & Served/ E-mailed 
□ Faxed 
□ Hand Delivered 
Dated this a I . day of December, 2023. 
MOTION FOR SCHEDULING ORDER 4 